Question: What is the name of the first letter of the Greek alphabet? Answer: Alpha
Question: What is the name of any segment connecting two points of a circle? Answer: Chord
Question: In which country does the action of the novel "In Desert and Wilderness" begin? Answer: Australia
Question: Were deputies and messengers appointed in ancient states? Answer: Yes
Question: What band did Hanka perform in in the film "Wife for an Australian"? Answer: The Seekers
Question: In which state is Mumbai located? Answer: Maharashtra
Question: Which side number is carried by the tank Rudy from "The Four Armored"? Answer: No. 5
Question: What was the engineer Tarkovsky, father of Stas, building in Egypt? Answer: The pyramids
Question: Are the fruits of some cacti edible? Answer: Yes
Question: Quartet - that's how many performers? Answer: 4
Question: Which craftsmen appear in Witkacy's last novel? Answer: The blacksmith and
Question: What is the name of the element with the symbol Bq? Answer: Becquerel
Question: The anthem of which country is the song "The Star-Spangled Banner"? Answer: Usa
Question: What was the name of the stiff men's hat with a rounded head and narrow slightly raised brim, fashionable in the second half of the 19th century? Answer: Borsalino
Question: What is the convex or concave surface of a liquid near the walls of a vessel called? Answer: Meniscus
Question: What was the name of the physicist who invented the telephone in 1876? Answer: Alexander graham bell
Question: What is the favorite saying of the Horeszko keyholder Gervase? Answer: The key is in
Question: Which gas is most abundant in the air? Answer: Nitrogen
Question: Does the venomous shawl occur in Poland? Answer: Yes
Question: According to the proverb, is the nose for the snuffbox or the snuffbox for the nose? Answer: Both
Question: The intersection point of the axes in the coordinate system is the zero point or the cutoff line? Answer: Origin
Question: Who is the author of the painting painted in 1892. "Women of Tahiti?" Answer: Paul gauguin
Question: What is the name of Fidel Castro's brother, who took over after him? Answer: Raul
Question: What does the word allied, derived from the French, mean? Answer: Alliance
Question: Which tropic crosses Mexico - Cancer or Capricorn? Answer: Cancer
Question: What is the name of the hill in Paris on which the Sacré-Cœur basilica was built? Answer: Montmartre
Question: What is the Greek name for an assumption that requires verification? Answer: Hypothesis
Question: What do the words "Quo vadis" mean? Answer: Where are you going
Question: Which 16th century legendary sorcerer was called the Polish Faust? Answer: Jan zywn
Question: What is the name of the poison made from the root of the shawm? Answer: Strychnine
Question: What is the name of Cuba's capital city? Answer: Havana
Question: What is the name of the British intelligence agent, the protagonist of Ian Fleming's novel? Answer: James Bond
Question: In what style was the tombstone of Casimir Jagiellon made? Answer: Renaissance
Question: In what century was the St. Charles Bridge built on the Vidava River? Answer: The 17th century
Question: In which city did Princess Diana die in a car accident? Answer: Paris
Question: Does philately also include collecting postcards and stamps? Answer: Yes
Question: Who played the character of Maliniak in "Forty Years Old"? Answer: James mason
Question: On which continent is the Iberian lynx found? Answer: Europe
Question: Who plays Kinga Zduńska in the TV series "M jak miłość"? Answer: Malgorzata
Question: In which mountains lie the gates of Chalubinsky? Answer: Caucasus
Question: Which gate is in the title of Roman Polanski's film? Answer: The gates of dawn
Question: On which Japanese island is the port of Yokohama located? Answer: Honshu
Question: Please elaborate on the acronym of the CSO, which was established in 1918. Answer: Central statistics office
Question: To which country do the islands of Rhodes and Corfu belong? Answer: Greece
Question: Did Stanislaw Baranczak translate the works of Shakespeare? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the smoking instrument and the top fang of the boar? Answer: Pipe
Question: Which film by Krzysztof Kieslowski starred Olaf Lubaszenko and Grażyna Szapołowska? Answer: The double life of
Question: Finish the proverb: "good habit: don't..."? Answer: Let the cat out
Question: How much salt do you have to eat with someone to get to know them well? Answer: A lot
Question: Which Polish city was not built right away? Answer: Warsaw
Question: Where did the 1917 apparitions take place? Answer: Fatima
Question: In the sentence: "He quickly jumped over the fence" which word is an adverb? Answer: Quickly
Question: Is a bioscope a medical device? Answer: No
Question: On which river are the cities of Grodno and Kaunas located? Answer: Neman
Question: What is the name of a descendant of Portuguese or Spanish settlers in South America? Answer: Brazilian
Question: So-called dry ice is the solid form of which chemical compound? Answer: Carbon dioxide
Question: What does ochlocracy mean in Greek? Answer: Rule by the mob
Question: In which city is the novel "The Prince and the Beggar" by Mark Twain set? Answer: London
Question: A disciple of which Greek philosopher was Aristippus of Cyrene, the founder of hedonism? Answer: Socrates
Question: Are Anna Jagiellonka - Duchess of Pomerania and Anna Jagiellonka - Queen of Poland the same person? Answer: No
Question: What shape is the wimpel, the flag of merchant ships? Answer: A circle
Question: Are there mackerel in the Baltic Sea? Answer: Yes
Question: In what year during World War II did the Italian government declare war on Hitler? Answer: 1940
Question: How many degrees is the sum of the interior angles of the quadrilateral? Answer: 360
Question: What unresolved battle is described in the book "War and Peace"? Answer: Borodino
Question: Which city in Australia is home to a famous opera house? Answer: Sydney
Question: Which country donated the Statue of Liberty to the U.S.? Answer: France
Question: In which field was Steffi Graff successful? Answer: Tennis
Question: What was the name of the Polish alpine skiing champion who was murdered by the Nazis in 1941 for her participation in the resistance movement? Answer: Wanda Rutkiewicz
Question: Baron is a title higher or lower than earl? Answer: Lower
Question: Which saint, a fisherman from Bethsaida, is the patron saint of fishermen? Answer: St. peter
Question: On which continent is Gabon located? Answer: Africa
Question: In what century did Genghis Khan live? Answer: 12th
Question: From which dynasty was the king who moved Poland's capital from Krakow to Warsaw? Answer: Jagiellonian
Question: From which continent does the lychee tree originate? Answer: Asia
Question: In which state is the Klondike, an area known for gold mining? Answer: Alaska
Question: What was the name of the Greek god who wore a caduceus? Answer: Hermes
Question: What is the name of a traditional Jewish hat? Answer: Yarmulke
Question: Who in Poland appoints the first president of the Supreme Court? Answer: President of Poland
Question: Where was the battle lost by Napoleon fought in October 1813? Answer: Leipzig
Question: In which country is the Victoria Cross the highest decoration? Answer: Britain
Question: Which Johann Strauss operetta has a flying mammal in its title? Answer: Die flederma
Question: Which river is Kazimierz Dolny located on? Answer: Vistula
Question: What is the name of the highest peak in Beskid Sadecki? Answer: Mount Rysy
Question: Someone "not in the dark" is someone smart or naive? Answer: Smart
Question: What was the name of the chorus leader in ancient Greek theater? Answer: Chorus Leader
Question: What is the name of a unit in the air force of 2-3 squadrons? Answer: Wing
Question: In what year was NATO founded? Answer: 1949
Question: What did the factory of astronomer John Hevelius produce? Answer: Astronomical instruments
Question: On which day of the week did Robinson Crusoe meet Friday? Answer: Friday
Question: What is the name of the holiday celebrated on October 31 in Anglo-Saxon countries? Answer: Halloween
Question: In what century did Dunlop invent the rubber tire? Answer: 19th century
Question: What hatches from a frog's croak? Answer: A tadpole
Question: The world championship in which discipline was defended in 2013 by Sergio Martinez? Answer: Boxing
Question: Cardinal Richelieu was secretary to which French king? Answer: Louis xiii
Question: What material is August Rodin's sculpture "The Thinker" made of? Answer: Bronze
Question: What is the name of the Polish combat ship that participated in World War II and has been in Gdynia for 40 years? Answer: ORP Blys
Question: "Running, shouting Mr. Hilary" - who is the author of these words? Answer: John lewis
Question: Who was the discoverer of Victoria Falls? Answer: David livingstone
Question: In which month does the remembrance of the so-called "cold gardeners" occur? Answer: November
Question: What is the name of the electrode connected to the negative pole of the current source? Answer: Cathode
Question: Does the great crested newt occur in its natural habitat in Poland? Answer: Yes
Question: "Something You Did to Athens, Socrates" - whose work is this by? Answer: Plato
Question: Which ruler led to Poland's divisive split? Answer: Lech walesa
Question: What is the name of the village in which Adam Mickiewicz set the action of "Pan Tadeusz"? Answer: Nowogródek
Question: From the milk of which animal is whey called whey made? Answer: Cow
Question: What aristocratic title did Sigmund Krasinski wear? Answer: Baron
Question: Is a sombrero a hat, a dish or a dance? Answer: Hat
Question: Who in Greek mythology was the god of the world of the dead? Answer: Hades
Question: What is the name of the President of Ukraine? Answer: Viktor yanukov
Question: In which country in the 1950s was the first credit card issued? Answer: United States
Question: What was the name of the knight of the Round Table blazing with affection for Queen Guinevere, wife of King Arthur? Answer: Sir lancelot
Question: In which Polish cabaret did the characters of Mr. Czesio, Turecki appear? Answer: The barber of
Question: To whom were the words directed in "Pan Tadeusz": "ungrateful"? Answer: Pan Tadeusz
Question: Are the Cape Verde Islands closer to Africa or Asia? Answer: Africa
Question: Who played the title role in Colonel Kwiatkowski? Answer: James Coburn
Question: Which ocean is affected by the Cromwell sea current in the equatorial zone? Answer: Atlantic
Question: What was the name of Captain Nemo's submarine? Answer: Nautilus
Question: "Wind from the East" is part of which book by Stefan Zeromski? Answer: The Winds of
Question: What is the name of the Polish painter of the 19th century, the author of the series of drawings "Polonia"? Answer: Jan Matejko
Question: Which country is the creator of Gadu-Gadu from? Answer: Poland
Question: From which century do the Doors of Gniezno date? Answer: The 13th
Question: What is the Latin name for opacity of the lens of the eye? Answer: Cataract
Question: Who was the successor of Michal Korybut Wisniowiecki? Answer: Lech Walesa
Question: What is the name of the special court to which the prime minister, president and ministers are accountable? Answer: The house of commons
Question: What does the phrase "manu propria" mean in Latin? Answer: By one's own hand
Question: What is the name of the mythical animal with one horn, a symbol of happiness and innocence? Answer: Unicorn
Question: Patron of which great composer was King Ludwig II of Bavaria? Answer: Wagner
Question: What was the nickname of Italian painter Bernardo Belotto? Answer: Bellotto
Question: What was the name of the band in which Marek Grechuta performed? Answer: The police
Question: On which islands, according to Jan Brzechwa, was a donkey seen being carried by an ant? Answer: Zanzibar
Question: Who used a pendulum experiment to demonstrate the existence of the Earth's rotational motion? Answer: Jean foucault
Question: On the border of which country and Egypt is the city of Abu Simbel with the temple of Ramses II? Answer: Sudan
Question: Was Napoleon III an emperor? Answer: Yes
Question: The statue of which goddess was Fidias' largest sculpture besides Zeus? Answer: Athena
Question: Can a blood alcohol test be conducted without the consent of the test subject? Answer: No
Question: How many wings do fleas have? Answer: Two
Question: In what century was the first gramophone record factory established? Answer: 19th
Question: What yellow flower symbolizes the commemoration of the anniversary of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising? Answer: Marigold
Question: Which apostle doubted the resurrection? Answer: Thomas
Question: Where did Judas come from? Answer: Judea
Question: What was the protagonist of the film "Wanted, Wanted" accused of? Answer: Murder
Question: What was the name of the first day of each month in the Roman calendar? Answer: Kalends
Question: In what year was the so-called Letter 34 signed, addressed to the Prime Minister of the People's Republic of Poland? Answer: 1939
Question: What is the image of the dead Jesus resting on Mary's lap called? Answer: Pieta
Question: What was the name of the director of the film "Citizen Kane"? Answer: Orson welles
Question: What is the plot of the film Vinci? Answer: The life of Leonardo
Question: Are Elgin's marbles a temple in Athens or a collection of ancient Greek sculptures? Answer: A collection of ancient
Question: In which European capital is there an Edward Munch museum? Answer: Oslo
Question: Who launched the Reformation in the Church in 1517? Answer: Martin luther
Question: Which animal is the symbol of a bull market in the stock market? Answer: Bull
Question: Does burnout occur in ice hockey? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the wooden superstructure at the bow or stern of old sailing ships? Answer: Forecastle
Question: From which century does the direction in furniture making called Biedermeier originate? Answer: 19th century
Question: What was the name of the founder of Polish Humanitarian Action? Answer: Fr. Maximilian
Question: Who appoints the president of the NIK? Answer: The president
Question: In which country in 1958 did the political campaign called the Great Leap Forward begin? Answer: China
Question: Which Polish king defeated the Turks at Vienna? Answer: Jan Sobieski
Question: Where does a minter work? Answer: A mine
Question: What is the abbreviation for the Association of Polish Architects? Answer: APA
Question: What is the name of the actor who twice played the role of the barbarian Conan? Answer: Arnold schwarzen
Question: Which soup is a symbol of things very cheap? Answer: Potage
Question: In which Polish city is Europe's largest castle complex located? Answer: Krakow
Question: Is "Pan Tadeusz" written in illocutionary style? Answer: Yes
Question: In what field did Alexander Solzhenitsyn receive the Nobel Prize? Answer: Literature
Question: Which fish does an unserious, unbalanced person have in his head? Answer: Flounder
Question: What animals is the manhunt for in the title of Jacek Kaczmarski's song? Answer: Fox
Question: From which cosmodrome did Yuri Gagarin take off? Answer: Baikonur
Question: Do we have an active volcano in Poland? Answer: No
Question: On the tail of which bird did Hera place the eyes of the giant Argos? Answer: Peacock
Question: Was Herod I the Great a king of Judea? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the settlement where Lasse, Bosse, Anna and Olaf lived in the book by Astrid Lindgren? Answer: Fjallbacka
Question: In which European city is there a university named Sorbonne? Answer: Paris
Question: Which trees is Rogalin near Poznań known for? Answer: Aspen
Question: What sounds in the reeds in Jan Brzechwa's fable? Answer: The sound of the
Question: What is the name of the Polish astronaut, General Hermaszewski? Answer: Wlodzimier
Question: Can a circle be described on every triangle? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the virus that causes polio? Answer: Poliovirus
Question: Can an MEP be a member of the Polish parliament at the same time? Answer: No
Question: What military rank did Henryk Dobrzanski, a.k.a. Hubal, have? Answer: Captain
Question: Sublimate is the chloride of which metal? Answer: Mercury
Question: What do we colloquially call the last back teeth? Answer: Wisdom teeth
Question: What is the name of the highest mountain massif in the Sudetes? Answer: Rysy
Question: What is the name of the thigh-length waterproof fishing pants? Answer: Bibs
Question: In which ancient city was the Tower of Babel built? Answer: Babylon
Question: Which work of the Trilogy did Hoffmann film first? Answer: The Tales of Hoff
Question: Which body in Poland elects the members of the State Tribunal? Answer: The Sejm
Question: What name derived from the founder's name is given to the Order of Friars Minor? Answer: Franciscan
Question: Which king found Poland wooden and left it brick? Answer: Casimir the great
Question: What position did Otto von Bismarck hold? Answer: Chancellor
Question: What is the name of the letter of the Morse alphabet denoted as three dashes? Answer: Z
Question: A knight's servant preparing for knightly status is...? Answer: A squire
Question: Is flax grown in Poland? Answer: No
Question: What nationality is Paulo Coelho? Answer: Brazilian
Question: What was the name of the Hungarian architect, the inventor of the stacking cube? Answer: Erno Rubik
Question: Do crocodiles live in China? Answer: Yes
Question: Under what form did Zeus seduce Danae trapped in the tower? Answer: A shower of gold
Question: Did Helena compete with Athena and Aphrodite in a beauty contest? Answer: Yes
Question: In which country is Brno located? Answer: Czech republic
Question: In what year was the song "Red Poppies on Monte Cassino" written? Answer: 1944
Question: What is the name of the naval command in Great Britain? Answer: Royal navy
Question: What is the name of the smoked sheep cheese produced in the Tatra Mountains? Answer: Oscypek
Question: What is called an attitude of doubt, a loss of faith in the success of a cause? Answer: Despair
Question: Which king issued the Wiślicko-Piotrkow statutes? Answer: King henry vi
Question: How many strings does a Russian guitar have? Answer: Three
Question: The Caribbean Sea is part of which ocean? Answer: Atlantic
Question: On which continent do the Iroquois live? Answer: North america
Question: Since what century has the Catholic University of Lublin existed? Answer: 16th century
Question: Which country is Stieg Larsson, author of the "Millennium" crime trilogy, from? Answer: Sweden
Question: Which tire company promotes the best restaurants in its published guide? Answer: Michelin
Question: On which continent did Mobutu Sese Seko rule? Answer: Africa
Question: Are the Wieprz and Wieprza the same river? Answer: No, the Wie
Question: What does the proverb say serves as a guide? Answer: A good example
Question: Is the work "Mikołaj Doświadczyński przypadki" by Ignacy Krasicki written in verse or prose? Answer: Prose
Question: In the Polish highlanders, what is the name of the elderly shepherd, to whom the yuhasi report? Answer: The starosta
Question: Is quicklime a chemical compound or an element? Answer: A compound
Question: At the mouth of which river lies the port of Le Havre? Answer: Seine
Question: In which uprising did the battles of Igania and Wawer take place? Answer: Polish uprising
Question: Does the Neman River flow through Vilnius? Answer: No
Question: In what year did the radio broadcast first begin with the playing of the bugle call from St. Mary's Tower? Answer: 1927
Question: Does the aurora borealis occur at both poles? Answer: No
Question: Which disease used to be called rheumatism? Answer: Scrofula
Question: In which country did Daoism originate? Answer: China
Question: In which battle did Ulrich von Jungingen die? Answer: The battle of sp
Question: What is the name of a predator from the canine family with large ears that lives in the Sahara? Answer: Jackal
Question: What do we colloquially call the sports and entertainment hall in Katowice? Answer: Silesian
Question: Founded in 1921, TMJP is a society of lovers of which language? Answer: Japanese
Question: What was the name of the Egyptian god with the head of a jackal? Answer: Anubis
Question: Which people built ziggurats? Answer: Mesopotamians
Question: What, in German, is the name of the door frame to which the door is attached? Answer: Stirn
Question: Whose privileges were limited by the Great Freedom Charter? Answer: King John
Question: What do we call a person who unlawfully, arbitrarily appropriates power or a position? Answer: Dictator
Question: What is the name of the largest colorless cut diamond in the world, mined in 1849 and given to Queen Victoria? Answer: The great star of
Question: Western Sahara has large deposits of copper, phosphorite or uranium? Answer: Phosphorite
Question: Who is the author of the historical novel "Ashes"? Answer: Frank mccourt
Question: What is the science of bacteria, viruses and other microorganisms called? Answer: Microbiology
Question: In which Federico Fellini film is Marcello Rubini the main character? Answer: La dolce vita
Question: Can the eel be electric? Answer: Yes
Question: Do bobsleds have handlebars and brakes? Answer: No
Question: Which animal is a symbol of a stock market slump? Answer: Bear
Question: In which Polish uprising did the Jew Berek Joselewicz take part? Answer: The Warsaw upris
Question: Give the Polish name of the element with the Latin name sulfur? Answer: Zinc
Question: What is the name of the plant family to which peas, beans, lupins belong? Answer: Legume
Question: What was the name of the document issued in 1215 by John Without Land? Answer: Magna Carta
Question: What nickname did Diderot give to the servant Pooh in his novel? Answer: Pooh
Question: According to Jan Brzechwa, where does the reed grow where the beetle sounds? Answer: In the reed beds
Question: On which island did Zeus hide the Europe he kidnapped? Answer: Crete
Question: What are the names of two real numbers whose result when added is zero? Answer: Conjugates
Question: What is the official form in which we address the deputy minister? Answer: Your excellency
Question: What is the name of a theater puppet that is placed on the hand and moved by the actor's fingers? Answer: Finger puppet
Question: What is the name of the entertainment district of Paris, located on the highest hill? Answer: Montmartre
Question: In which American city are the Flushing Meadows tennis courts located? Answer: New York
Question: What was the name of the political police in the Third Reich? Answer: Gestapo
Question: What do the words "Et tu, Brute, contra me" mean? Answer: And you, Br
Question: What is the name of American actor Kirk Douglas' son? Answer: Michael douglas
Question: Which European capital is closest to the Polish border? Answer: Vienna
Question: Which city is the capital of the Subcarpathian province? Answer: Uzhhorod
Question: What is the Latin name for the spelling exercise of writing down text? Answer: Copying
Question: What is the French name for an official denial or correction of some news? Answer: Rectification
Question: What is the French name for reading notes by voice? Answer: Chanter
Question: Who produced the film "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs" in 1937? Answer: Walt Disney
Question: What was the name of the fortress at the mouth of the Zbrucz River to the Dniester, near Kamieniec Podolski? Answer: Kamieniec
Question: What was the name of the economic program proposed by Mikhail Gorbachev? Answer: Perestroika
Question: Which Asian peninsula is the largest? Answer: Arabian peninsula
Question: Complete the adage: "the first cats for..." Answer: The first cats for
Question: What Latin words are uttered after the election of a pope? Answer: Habemus Pap
Question: To persistently demand something is to drill a hole in someone's...? Answer: Back
Question: What was the name of the girl from Green Gables? Answer: Anne
Question: Is Austria a member of NATO? Answer: No
Question: In which city did the coronation of Stanislaw August Poniatowski take place? Answer: Warsaw
Question: Is calcium a metal? Answer: Yes
Question: What time of day was Herling Grudzinski's Diary written? Answer: Midnight
Question: What is the name of the romantic park founded by Helena Radziwill in 1776 near Nieborow? Answer: Nieborow park
Question: After the death of which ruler did the Diadochs divide his kingdom? Answer: Alexander the great
Question: In which ocean is the island of St. Helena located? Answer: Atlantic
Question: Is the Sahara also located in Algerian territory? Answer: Yes
Question: Where was Arthur Schopenhauer born? Answer: Germany
Question: "My Summer in Downing Street" is the memoirs of which British politician? Answer: Margaret thatcher
Question: Please provide the Polish name of the economic organization with the abbreviation EFTA. Answer: European Free Trade Association
Question: In what year did the first nuclear test take place? Answer: 1945
Question: To whom did the Durendal sword belong? Answer: King Arthur
Question: Who in Pan Tadeusz played the best on the dulcimer? Answer: Zosia
Question: What was the name of the barber of Seville? Answer: Figaro
Question: In which country is the DPA news agency headquartered? Answer: Germany
Question: How many liters are contained in one cubic decimeter? Answer: One thousand
Question: What is the name of a large tank for carrying fuel? Answer: Tanker
Question: What is the name of an electric bus powered by a grid suspended over the road? Answer: Levitron
Question: What is the angle between the geographic meridian and the magnetic meridian called? Answer: Magnetic declination
Question: Give the chemical formula of ice. Answer: H2O
Question: What is the name of Georgia's capital? Answer: Tbilisi
Question: What is the name of a member of the Monty Python group, played in the films A Fish Called Wanda? Answer: John cleese
Question: Who in the Navy is the equivalent of a Lieutenant General? Answer: Vice Admiral
Question: In which city is the Dragon of Dragons award for documentaries given? Answer: Berlin
Question: Every how many years was the mythical phoenix reborn from the ashes - every 50, every 500 or every 5,000 years? Answer: Every 500
Question: French physiologist Albert Calmette has developed a vaccine against which microorganism? Answer: Tuberculosis
Question: From which country did the dark, strong beer - porter - originate? Answer: England
Question: Which medical instrument was invented by Lembeck? Answer: Thermometer
Question: Is military service compulsory in Great Britain? Answer: No
Question: Conjunctivus is which mode of the verb in Latin? Answer: Imperative
Question: Please decipher the abbreviation KBWE? Answer: Keep Britain white and
Question: Which Russian czar ordered Yermak's expedition to Siberia in 1582? Answer: Ivan iv
Question: In which country lie the so-called Transylvanian Alps, or Southern Carpathians? Answer: Romania
Question: In which play by Alexander Fredro in the first scene does Gustav enter through the window? Answer: The king's daughter
Question: Which book consists of 114 sur? Answer: Koran
Question: Whose wife was called the "borderland wolf" because of the Tartar pogroms? Answer: Ivan the terrible
Question: Which country was home to the so-called Bizonia - the combined occupation zones of Britain and the U.S.? Answer: Japan
Question: What do we call a person finding pleasure in inflicting physical pain? Answer: Sadist
Question: "The Career of Arthur Ui" presents a parody of which politician? Answer: Tony blair
Question: What charge do protons have? Answer: Positive
Question: What is the name of the channel connecting the Irish Sea to the Celtic Sea? Answer: The irish sea
Question: What was the name of the "Alien" spaceship? Answer: Nostromo
Question: On what horse according to folk beliefs does St. Martin arrive? Answer: A white horse
Question: What does the word succor mean? Answer: To help
Question: Into which sea does the Danube flow? Answer: Black sea
Question: What is the name of a protein belonging to scleroproteins that is the basic building block of hair and nails? Answer: Keratin
Question: In his self-portrait with Saskia, Rembrandt depicted himself with a woman sitting on his lap. Who was this woman to Rembrandt? Answer: Saskia
Question: What used to be the name of a camp cone in the military? Answer: Camper
Question: On which continent are the mountains of Notre Dame located? Answer: North America
Question: Where is Olympus Mons located? Answer: Mars
Question: How many Sundays does Lent count? Answer: 40
Question: What is the name of the director of the film "Close Encounters of the Third Kind"? Answer: Steven speilberg
Question: What chemical element has the symbol Fm? Answer: Fermium
Question: Medieval goosebumps are they a plucked or wind instrument? Answer: Plucked
Question: What is the name of the title character, a lovable creature from another planet, of Spielberg's film? Answer: E.T
Question: In what country were Odra computers manufactured? Answer: Poland
Question: In what century did Rudolf Diesel develop the diesel engine? Answer: 19th
Question: How many seeds are contained in a date palm fruit? Answer: Three
Question: What is the Greek name for a three-part painting or sculpture? Answer: Tryptich
Question: What was the name of the Polish military organization, whose commanders were Generals Grot, Bór, Niedźwiadek? Answer: Home Army
Question: What is the name for slavery to the Turks or Tartars in Old Polish? Answer: Tatar
Question: What is a low-value card called in bridge? Answer: A trump
Question: What is the title of Stieg Larsson's trilogy, the last volume of which is titled "The Sandcastle That Fell"? Answer: The girl who played
Question: In what year did Father John Paul II visit Poland for the first time? Answer: 1979
Question: How many medals did the Poles win at the 2013 World Athletics Championships in Moscow? Answer: 2
Question: Which city was the Titanic headed to? Answer: New York
Question: How many meters is a hectometer? Answer: 100
Question: The long strand of hair from the temples worn by Orthodox Jews is...? Answer: Talis
Question: In which Stanislaw Bareja film is there a scene with bowls bolted to tables? Answer: The man with the
Question: In what century did Charles Darwin live? Answer: 19th
Question: In what year was the People's Republic of Poland renamed? Answer: In 1990
Question: Which cabaret is made up of Stanislaw Szelc, Jerzy Skoczylas and Leszek Niedzielski? Answer: Trio
Question: Who was crowned king of Poland earlier: Jagiello or Jadwiga? Answer: Jagiello
Question: Which blacksmith product brings good luck? Answer: A horseshoe
Question: Did Federico Fellini, nominated for an Oscar 12 times, receive the award for directing? Answer: No
Question: What was the name of the eponymous Anna, the heroine of Leo Tolstoy's book? Answer: Anna Karenina
Question: Which character in "Quo vadis" is called Copperbeard? Answer: Peter
Question: What is the name of the Vatican's representation to the government of a country? Answer: Nunciature
Question: What color calendars does Piotr Szczepanik recommend burning in his song? Answer: Red
Question: Potsdamer Platz, Alexander Platz - these are the names of subway stations in which city? Answer: Berlin
Question: What is the name of the highest Polish award that Jerzy Buzek and Norman Davies received in 2012? Answer: Order of the White
Question: What do we call a simple pyramid whose base is a regular figure? Answer: Regular pyramid
Question: To visit an Aztec city, do you have to go to Mexico, Bolivia or Peru? Answer: Mexico
Question: What is the name of the gear shifting device on a bicycle? Answer: Derailleur
Question: In which part of Gdansk lies the cathedral with the famous organ built by Jan Wolff? Answer: St Mary's
Question: Who issued the Great Charter of Liberties in 1215? Answer: King John
Question: In what century was the Queen Victoria and Prince Albert Museum established in London? Answer: 19th century
Question: Are mammography and ultrasound the same method of examination? Answer: No
Question: What is the one word for milk, butter, cheese? Answer: Dairy
Question: Does a green sign with the name of the village oblige you to slow down to 50 km/h? Answer: No
Question: Which Greek god's name is borne by the U.S. ships used to land on the moon? Answer: Apollo
Question: What was the name of the Swedish naturalist who created the classification of organisms? Answer: Carl linnaeus
Question: What was the name of Eiffel, the builder of the tower in Paris? Answer: Gustave Eiffel
Question: In what year was the festival at Woodstock first held? Answer: 1969
Question: How many legs does a photography tripod usually have? Answer: Three
Question: Who wrote "The Promised Land" and "The Peasants"? Answer: George orwell
Question: What was the name of the telegrapher in "The Four Armored"? Answer: Johnnie
Question: In which era did St. Thomas Aquinas live: the Middle Ages or the Renaissance? Answer: Renaissance
Question: In which century did Henry VIII reign? Answer: 16th
Question: In which industrial plant is a rolling mill usually located? Answer: Steelworks
Question: What is the name of a water pipe popular in the Middle East? Answer: Hookah
Question: What was the name of the sports club whose president was Richard Ochódzki? Answer: Warsaw athletic club
Question: Which Russian tsar introduced the grahazel? Answer: Ivan iv
Question: What did he want to name his daughter after the coal man from the movie "Teddy Bear"? Answer: John betjeman
Question: Who built the first diesel engine in 1897? Answer: Rudolf diesel
Question: Is the honeymoon a period before or after the wedding? Answer: After
Question: Are there flamingos in South America? Answer: Yes
Question: In what year was the first artificial Earth satellite launched? Answer: 1957
Question: Whose name is the Song and Dance Ensemble "Silesia" named after? Answer: The composer, Stanis
Question: What was the name of the 1947 action to resettle Ukrainians? Answer: Operation Vistula
Question: Which country did the writer Verne come from? Answer: France
Question: What was the name of Esau and Jacob's father? Answer: Isaac
Question: Who created an opera based on the poem "Eugene Onegin" by Alexander Pushkin? Answer: Tchaikovsky
Question: Point out the preposition in the sentence "I'm going to school." Answer: In
Question: Is a hook gun an incisive weapon or a firearm? Answer: Incisive
Question: In sports, what is the name for an improper play, hit, etc.? Answer: Fouls
Question: What is the name of an international organization of writers founded in London in the 1920s? Answer: The guinness
Question: In which city did Beethoven create and die? Answer: Vienna
Question: What was the name of the prince, the hero of Alexander Borodin's opera? Answer: Igor
Question: How many times has Innsbruck hosted the Winter IO? Answer: 3
Question: Which of Shakespeare's dramas featured Polonius, Claudius, and Gertrude? Answer: Hamlet
Question: Can churches and religious associations apply for EU grants? Answer: Yes
Question: Is Bydgoszcz located on the Vistula River? Answer: Yes
Question: Who is the author of the words: "sacred love of the beloved homeland"? Answer: -â  mend
Question: Does Norway border Russia? Answer: Yes
Question: 1444 - what century is that? Answer: 15th
Question: In which country was Alfred Nobel born? Answer: Sweden
Question: Expand the acronym NFZ. Answer: No fly zone
Question: What is the name of the horse breeding center? Answer: Stud
Question: What is the letter abbreviation for a person of undetermined identity? Answer: X
Question: Do dolphins have teeth? Answer: Yes
Question: Which country does Bermuda belong to? Answer: United Kingdom
Question: What was the name of the Polish painter Makowski? Answer: Jan Matejko
Question: With which country does Poland have the shortest border? Answer: Lithuania
Question: What is the other name for an ocular incongruity resulting from imperfect corneal formation? Answer: Astigmatism
Question: What was the name of Hades' wife, who spent part of the year underground and part on the ground? Answer: Persephone
Question: What does the word Werwolf mean in Polish, which was the name of a German diversionary plan during World War II? Answer: Werewolf
Question: The ruler of which state was Semiramide? Answer: Syria
Question: What is the name of the pass that starts a volleyball match? Answer: Serve
Question: What was Wokulski's name? Answer: Wladyslaw
Question: In what style is St. Mary's Church in Gdansk built? Answer: Gothic
Question: How many pairs of eyes does a flounder have? Answer: Two
Question: What was the name of the author of "Anna Karenina" and "War and Peace"? Answer: Leo tolstoy
Question: Who is the author of "A Short Treatise Between the Lord, the Alderman and the Parson"? Answer: Geoffrey chaucer
Question: Which number is larger: -1 or -1.5? Answer: -1
Question: The district of which city is Szombierki? Answer: Warsaw
Question: What is the weight of the goods including packaging called? Answer: Gross weight
Question: How many adopted children does Marek Mostowiak have? Answer: 3
Question: What is the name of the Pole who developed a glider called a hang glider in 1896? Answer: Otto Lilienthal
Question: What is the name of the lowest military rank? Answer: Private
Question: In what non-SI units do we measure the focusing ability of a lens? Answer: Dioptre
Question: What was the name of the band in which Michael Jackson performed together with his brothers? Answer: The Jackson 5
Question: Is Iceland a republic? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the number that determines the ratio of the length of a circle's circumference to its diameter? Answer: Pi
Question: One hundredth of a ruble is...? Answer: Kopek
Question: What form did Satan take to tempt Eve in paradise? Answer: A serpent
Question: What is the name of a question that does not need to be answered because it is common knowledge? Answer: A rhetorical
Question: What is the French term for glasses that stick only on the nose? Answer: Lunettes
Question: In which film Zdzislaw Maklakiewicz introduces himself with the words: "I'm very sorry, engineer Mamoń I am"? Answer: The man who would
Question: Please provide the exact date when the November Uprising began? Answer: November 1830
Question: By which sea is Algeria located? Answer: Mediterranean
Question: In which Spanish city is the Alhambra palace located? Answer: Granada
Question: In which Warsaw cemetery is Leopold Staff buried? Answer: Powązki
Question: What was the name of the peace pipe smoked by Indian chiefs? Answer: Calumet
Question: On which island stood the colossus depicting the sun god Helios ranked among the seven wonders of the world? Answer: Rhodes
Question: What number are caged eggs labeled with? Answer: 3
Question: What is the name of the mother of the mother and the cake? Answer: Anne
Question: Which work is subtitled "History of the nobility of 1811 and 1812 in twelve books in verse"? Answer: The works of lord
Question: In what century was the railroad from Krakow to Zakopane established? Answer: 19th
Question: Did Napoleon's legitimate son ascend to the throne of France? Answer: No
Question: Which artist recorded the song "Raspberry King" with the band Budka Suflera? Answer: The Beatles
Question: What is the name of the famous Spanish tenor Carreras? Answer: Jose
Question: Did Moniuszko create operettas? Answer: Yes
Question: What was the name of the brothers Joseph and Casimir, Olympic wrestlers? Answer: Krawiec
Question: In which uprising did Boleslaw Prus participate? Answer: The November upris
Question: In Buddhism and Hinduism, what is the state of liberation from suffering and desire, the ultimate goal of every believer, called? Answer: Nirvana
Question: Swiekier is the old Polish name for the wife's father or the husband's father? Answer: Father-in-law
Question: How many minutes does a handball match last? Answer: 30 minutes
Question: The prime minister of which European country was Aldo Moro? Answer: Italy
Question: Thinking of two opposites we say fire and...? Answer: Ice
Question: What do we call the horse sport, equestrianism, in Greek? Answer: Hippos
Question: What is the name of the stamp album? Answer: Album
Question: How many barrels does a hunting gun called a double-barreled shotgun have? Answer: Two
Question: In Podhale, what is the name of the owner of a village farm? Answer: Mr. Szcz
Question: What is the official language in Cuba? Answer: Spanish
Question: What does autumn begin with in a song performed by Czesław Niemen? Answer: The first day of
Question: Who commanded the Polish army in 1673 at the Battle of Chocim? Answer: Jan zygm
Question: What was the name of the yacht on which Henryk Jaskola circumnavigated the Earth alone? Answer: Gypsy m
Question: How many countries does San Marino border? Answer: One
Question: Which Polish king was the last to fight a war against the Teutonic Order? Answer: Casimir iii
Question: Is a dybbuk the soul of a dead sinner ascending into a living body or a ghost in a household? Answer: No
Question: On whose side did Sweden fight during both wars? Answer: Germany
Question: To which disciple did Jesus give the Aramaic name Kephas? Answer: Peter
Question: In which Italian city was St. Francis born? Answer: Assisi
Question: The protagonist of which novel by Żeromski is Cezary Baryka? Answer: The man in the
Question: Was there a disciple named Bartholomew among the twelve apostles? Answer: Yes
Question: Which sport did Franz Beckenbauer play? Answer: Soccer
Question: What was the highest denomination present in circulation before the 1995 denomination? Answer: £100
Question: Which queen was protected by Athos, Porthos, Aramis and d'Artagnan from Richelieu? Answer: Queen Anne
Question: What position does Przemyslaw Tyton play? Answer: Goalkeeper
Question: The guitarist of which rock band played one of the roles in the movie "Pirates of the Caribbean at the End of the World"? Answer: Keith richards
Question: On which continent is the Takla Makan desert located? Answer: Asia
Question: In which city was Julian Tuwim born? Answer: Warsaw
Question: Was the idea of lighting the Olympic torch practiced in ancient Greece? Answer: Yes
Question: Which planet in the solar system orbits the fastest? Answer: Jupiter
Question: Is X muse referred to as television or film? Answer: Film
Question: Entente cordiale is an alliance made in 1904 between France and which country? Answer: Great Britain
Question: Where was the first regular radio station established? Answer: New york
Question: Who captured the South Pole in 1911? Answer: Roald amund
Question: What does the term fair play mean? Answer: To play fairly
Question: Is it a traffic offense to overtake a vehicle at a pedestrian crossing? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the postulate that says that there are no two electrons in an atom that have identical all four quantum numbers? Answer: Pauli's exclusion
Question: The flag of which country depicts a red shield on a white background? Answer: Poland
Question: Which European capital is located in the Wallachian Plain? Answer: Bucharest
Question: Was John III Sobieski king during his command of the Battle of Chocim? Answer: No
Question: In which sea is the island of Bornholm located? Answer: Baltic sea
Question: Which country did the knight Cid come from? Answer: Spain
Question: What year was the premiere of "The Wedding" by Stanislaw Wyspianski? Answer: 1924
Question: What kind of insects does myrmecology deal with? Answer: Ants
Question: Was Queen Victoria the empress of India? Answer: Yes
Question: From what does he who wars with the sword perish? Answer: From the sword
Question: What is the name of the court writ providing the defendant with security of arrival from abroad? Answer: Habeas corpus
Question: In what century did the Rokosz Zebrzydowski take place? Answer: 1610
Question: Kora with the band Maanam sings: "The clouds are hanging over the city." Over which one? Answer: Mumbai
Question: What is the name of the heroine of the Tomb Raider series of computer games? Answer: Lara croft
Question: What country's historical land is Provence? Answer: Italy
Question: Who commanded the Polish troops during the Battle of Szczekociny? Answer: General rydz
Question: Who is the central figure of the Veit Stoss altarpiece? Answer: The virgin mary
Question: "My," "your," "our" - what pronouns are these? Answer: Personal pronouns
Question: How many syllables are in the word dusk? Answer: 5
Question: Which American president attended the Yalta peace conference? Answer: Franklin d. ro
Question: Who created the writing system for the blind? Answer: Louis braille
Question: Who is the patron saint of the oldest university in Prague? Answer: St. john
Question: What is Major Hubal's real name? Answer: John
Question: Who is the author of the children's poem entitled. "Selfie?" Answer: Simon armitage
Question: Which country invaded Finland during the so-called Winter War? Answer: Russia
Question: Who did the soldiers of the Legions call Grandpa? Answer: Caesar
Question: "Explaining Dreams", "Introduction to Psychoanalysis" - these are books by which author? Answer: Sigmund freud
Question: What was the nickname of Queen Mary I Tudor of England? Answer: Bloody mary
Question: What is the name of the drawing composed of intersecting lines placed on banknotes? Answer: Watermark
Question: In what century were the words of the Rota written? Answer: 14th century
Question: What was Makushinsky's name? Answer: Mikhail
Question: Which singer launched the hits "Like a virgin" and "Material girl"? Answer: Madonna
Question: What is the name of the depression on the Moon's surface caused by a meteorite impact? Answer: Craters
Question: In which European capital does the Acropolis rise? Answer: Athens
Question: The team of which country is customarily referred to as the Orange? Answer: Belgium
Question: From which continent do inverted parakeets originate? Answer: Asia
Question: Did a king named Ludwik reign in Poland? Answer: Yes
Question: The singer of which band is Grzegorz Markowski? Answer: The smashing pump
Question: How many husbands did Scarlett O'Hara have? Answer: Two
Question: Is the bird named Secretary predatory or herbivorous? Answer: Predatory
Question: Which language is official in Brazil? Answer: Portuguese
Question: The mineral named talc is the mineral of which element? Answer: Magnesium
Question: On which continent is Patagonia located? Answer: South America
Question: Who is the author of the poem "Recollection" sung by Czeslaw Niemen? Answer: Robert browning
Question: Sculptor Slawomir Dunikowski donated his work to the state. Where can we admire his museum? Answer: In Poland
Question: A state functionary who prosecutes criminals and charges them in court is...? Answer: District attorney
Question: In honor of whom is Kotan Day celebrated? Answer: Kotan
Question: The symbol for which element is Cr? Answer: Chromium
Question: In which mountains is the peak of Polonina Wetlinskaya located? Answer: Carpathians
Question: "The beetle sounds in the reeds". - Who is the author of these words? Answer: Thomas Gray
Question: In which city was the Picador cabaret active? Answer: Paris
Question: Through which district of London does the zero meridian pass? Answer: Greenwich
Question: Is a hook gun an alpine equipment or a weapon? Answer: Alpine equipment
Question: To promise great benefits and riches - is to promise what mountains? Answer: The moon
Question: What did the title Lord Jim, the hero of Joseph Conrad's book, do? Answer: He was a se
Question: What was the name of the former imperial residence in Beijing? Answer: The Forbidden City
Question: The capital of which country is Sofia? Answer: Bulgaria
Question: In how many styles are swimming competitions held? Answer: Four
Question: What bird appears in the coat of arms of Austria? Answer: Eagle
Question: Diablotka is a spicy spiced fish soup or a puff pastry pie? Answer: Fish soup
Question: The forint is the currency of which country? Answer: Hungary
Question: What is the name of the combined chambers of the Polish Sejm and Senate? Answer: Parliament
Question: What was Rumcajs' profession before he became a highwayman? Answer: A butcher
Question: What was the name of the first U.S. president? Answer: George washington
Question: Who is the author of the novel "Ashes and Diamonds"? Answer: Frank mccourt
Question: In which country are the ruins of the ancient city of Memphis located? Answer: Egypt
Question: How many rooks are standing on the chessboard at the beginning of the game? Answer: 2
Question: Are synogarillas a variety of pigeons or titmice? Answer: Pigeons
Question: What is the name of the officer in charge of economic affairs on the ship? Answer: The purser
Question: Did Jan Kochanowski study in Italy? Answer: Yes
Question: Who is the author of the poem about the Trumpet Elephant? Answer: Edward lear
Question: In what year was the Song and Dance Group "Mazowsze" founded? Answer: In 1945
Question: Cubiculum is what kind of room? Answer: Bedroom
Question: What job was Irena Kwiatkowska afraid of in the TV series Forty Years Old? Answer: Dentist
Question: In what century did the Battle of Somosierra take place? Answer: 18th
Question: What was the name of the part of Poland directly incorporated into the Third Reich during World War II? Answer: General Government
Question: What was the name of the daughter of the King of Colchis, the wife of Jason? Answer: Medea
Question: Which river runs through the Bledowska Desert? Answer: The Vistula
Question: In which province is Pila located? Answer: Croatia
Question: Who is the author of the play "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof"? Answer: Tenessee william
Question: What do we call dumplings for Christmas Eve borscht? Answer: Pelmeni
Question: Is the surface area of a badminton court larger or smaller than a tennis court? Answer: Smaller
Question: In which country is the book "Lolita" set? Answer: Russia
Question: What is the name of the science that deals with the study of coats of arms? Answer: Heraldry
Question: Where does the kiwi bird occur in the wild? Answer: New Zealand
Question: What chemical element and a peninsula in the Baltic Sea share the same name? Answer: Rhenium
Question: Which animal kidnapped Thumbelina from her home? Answer: A snail
Question: Did Sigmund Krasinski write the "Divine Comedy"? Answer: No
Question: Does Gibraltar have a larger area than Warsaw? Answer: No
Question: Where did Pygmalion originate from? Answer: Cyprus
Question: What was the name of Vincent van Gogh's brother, who supported him financially? Answer: Theo
Question: What was the name of the Transylvanian prince who, in alliance with the Swedes, invaded Poland in 1657? Answer: John ii
Question: John Glenn or Valentina Tereshkova - who has been in space before? Answer: John Glenn
Question: Which country owns an island in the Adriatic Sea named Krk? Answer: Croatia
Question: What is the name of the capital of Belarus? Answer: Minsk
Question: Who is the author of the words: "such shall be the Republic, what its youth chow"? Answer: Thomas carlyle
Question: Ju-jitsu is an Old Japanese style of hand-to-hand combat or using bamboo sticks? Answer: Correct
Question: Who wrote the libretto to Stanislaw Moniuszko's opera "Halka"? Answer: Juliusz Sł
Question: St. Anthony of Padua belonged to which order? Answer: Franciscans
Question: What does the Latin word quasi mean? Answer: Almost
Question: In which country rises the highest peak in South America. - Aconcagua? Answer: Argentina
Question: In which Greek city does the Olympic torch burn? Answer: Olympia
Question: Which country is Luis Figo from? Answer: Portugal
Question: Did Juliusz Słowacki also write in prose? Answer: Yes
Question: According to the song, what is knocking in the cha-cha rhythm? Answer: The hips
Question: What is the name of the last letter in the Greek alphabet? Answer: Omega
Question: What was Che Guevara's name? Answer: Ernesto Guevara
Question: From which work by Aldous Huxley is the quote: "when the individual feels, the community fails"? Answer: Brave new world
Question: In which country does the Neris flow into the Nemunas? Answer: Lithuania
Question: How many female vocalists were part of the ABBA band? Answer: 4
Question: Is Gubalowka more or less than 1,000 meters above sea level? Answer: More
Question: What is the name of the half of the half? Answer: A quarter
Question: What is the name of the British actress who played the head of intelligence in the Bond film series? Answer: Judi dench
Question: Are there more consonants or vowels in the Polish alphabet? Answer: Consonants
Question: What was the name of the god of the north wind in Greek mythology? Answer: Boreas
Question: In what year were the separate German states of East Germany and West Germany established? Answer: 1949
Question: To which country do Muslims make the pilgrimage to visit Mecca? Answer: Saudi Arabia
Question: What did the god Eol exercise authority over? Answer: The winds
Question: From which people did Goliath originate? Answer: Philistines
Question: What is the name of the crew dining room on the ship? Answer: The galley
Question: What do we call a section of text that begins with a new line? Answer: Paragraph
Question: What disease is transmitted by the female forkhead mosquito? Answer: Malaria
Question: What is the name of a traditional Russian carriage made of three horses in a row? Answer: Troika
Question: According to the Old Gentlemen's Cabaret, what is good for everything? Answer: Gin
Question: Who was the creator of the Mickey Mouse and Pluto dog characters? Answer: Walt disney
Question: Who attempted to lead Eurydice out of Hades? Answer: Orpheus
Question: How many times in a year do the monsoons change their direction? Answer: Two
Question: What is a caddy? Answer: A golf bag
Question: Is a tuja a coniferous or deciduous plant? Answer: Deciduous
Question: The district of which city is Manhattan? Answer: New York
Question: What body part did Eeyore lose one day? Answer: His tail
Question: In what year did Otto III and Boleslaw the Brave meet at the Congress of Gniezno? Answer: 966
Question: An altar of three parts is a triptych, and what is the name of an altar of two parts? Answer: Diptych
Question: What nationality was the writer Kallimach, teacher of the sons of Casimir Jagiellon? Answer: Polish
Question: Isotopes are atoms with the same mass or atomic number? Answer: No
Question: In which language does merci mean thank you? Answer: French
Question: What is a female deer called? Answer: Doe
Question: The old song sang "buy auburns." Are they little bouquets of flowers? Answer: No
Question: What names did Mozart bear? Answer: Wolfgang Amadeus
Question: What was the name of General Rowecki a.k.a. Grot? Answer: General roecki
Question: What does the proverb say the canine wants? Answer: A bone
Question: What is the name of the 12-point scale that describes earthquakes in addition to the Richter scale? Answer: Mercalli scale
Question: What is the name of Zakopane's main promenade? Answer: Krupowki
Question: Which bird is a symbol of peace and harmony? Answer: Dove
Question: What is a poem devoid of rhymes called? Answer: Blank Verse
Question: The capital of which region of Italy is Florence? Answer: Tuscany
Question: From the repertoire of which band is the song "I am from the city"? Answer: The city
Question: Which animal is the symbol of Bialowieza National Park? Answer: Bison
Question: Illegal performance enhancement is...? Answer: Doping
Question: What color were the hills of Africa in the title of Ernest Hemingway's novel? Answer: Green
Question: What does the Latin phrase "ad exemplum" mean? Answer: By example
Question: What was the name of the son of an aristocrat abandoned in the jungle and raised by monkeys? Answer: Mowgli
Question: What is the German name for a flammable cord used to initiate an explosion at a distance? Answer: Fuse
Question: What was the nickname of the great socialite Henryk Goldszmit? Answer: The prince of darkness
Question: What did Marysia do in Konopnicka's fairy tale about Orphan Mary? Answer: She was a princess
Question: What is the name of a collective farm in Israel? Answer: Kibbutz
Question: What was the name of the lord of the castle who married the titular Balladine from Słowacki's novel? Answer: The Balladine
Question: How many times did Alfred Hitchcock get an Oscar for directing? Answer: Twice
Question: What does the word "lupus" mean in Latin? Answer: Wolf
Question: Is sugarcane grown in Brazil? Answer: Yes
Question: Where did Heraclitus come from? Answer: Ephesus
Question: Is the Council of Ministers the executive or the legislative branch? Answer: The executive
Question: What was the name of the dumb Gall, the hero of Asterix comics? Answer: Obelix
Question: To which country do the Aeolian islands belong? Answer: Italy
Question: In which state in the US is the city of Detroit located? Answer: Michigan
Question: Are vultures under protection in Poland? Answer: Yes
Question: In what series did George Clooney play the role of Dr. Ross? Answer: ER
Question: What did the awl come out of? Answer: A loom
Question: On which side fighting in the Civil War did more Poles fight? Answer: Union
Question: What was the name of the battleship that started World War II? Answer: H.m
Question: Is Camembert cheese Greek cheese or French cheese? Answer: French
Question: What was the name of the author of the painting "The Night Adventures of John Olbracht"? Answer: Rembrandt
Question: What is the name of the writer, author of "Diary Written at Night"? Answer: Anne frank
Question: Which tropic passes through Australia? Answer: Tropic of capric
Question: In which country is the geographical land called Transylvania located? Answer: Romania
Question: The leader of which team is Adam Darski - Nergal? Answer: Behemoth
Question: Is the boa constrictor or venomous snake? Answer: No
Question: Which city is the capital of Mexico? Answer: Mexico city
Question: What is Maryla Rodowicz's regret in the song "Today the real gypsies are gone"? Answer: The gyps
Question: Whose name is the Cracow Academy of Fine Arts named after? Answer: Stanislaw Wysp
Question: What role did Stanislaw Mikulski play in "A Stake Larger Than Life"? Answer: The Pope
Question: What is the name of the leather-treatment facility? Answer: Tannery
Question: What was Nemtsevich's name? Answer: Vladimir
Question: What is the title of the second part of "Bridget Jones's Diary"? Answer: The Edge of Reason
Question: Is the baboon living in the rivers of India and Burma a mammal? Answer: Yes
Question: What was Witos' name? Answer: Gandalf
Question: What is the name of the structure that protects the bridge's structures from the impact of krill? Answer: Krill shield
Question: The highest peak of which mountains is the Corno Grande? Answer: The dolomites
Question: Which univ. is older: Sorbonne or Jagiellonian University? Answer: Sorbonne
Question: What is the name of the drawbridge in London, built in the 19th century? Answer: Tower bridge
Question: What was the name of Bellerofont's winged steed on which he fought Chimera? Answer: Pegasus
Question: To whom did the gladiators address themselves, saying: "those going to their death greet you"? Answer: The crowd
Question: What is the name of the cosmodrome in Kazakhstan? Answer: Baikonur
Question: A bardis is a type of pica, sword or battle axe? Answer: Battle axe
Question: What is the name of the day of rest celebrated by Jews? Answer: Shabbat
Question: Is the gibbon a mammal? Answer: Yes
Question: What eye color do Siamese cats usually have? Answer: Blue
Question: Which Florentine historian and politician is the author of the book "The Prince"? Answer: Niccolo machia
Question: Is salt still being mined in Bochnia? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the detective whose adventures were first described in the book "A Study in Scarlet"? Answer: Sherlock holmes
Question: Is there a horse racing track in Wroclaw? Answer: No
Question: What was the name of Heracles' wife? Answer: Deianira
Question: Which monster was killing with its eyes? Answer: Basilisk
Question: Which sport did Mariusz Czerkawski play professionally? Answer: Basketball
Question: Is acclamation the rejection of a motion by vote? Answer: No
Question: In which city is the 91-meter tall Battle of the Nations Monument located? Answer: Leipzig
Question: In what century is the plot of the novel "Countess Cosel" by Kraszewski set? Answer: 19th
Question: What are the names of large concentrations of marine fish? Answer: Schools
Question: In which city is Bertold Brecht's "The Threepenny Opera" set? Answer: Vienna
Question: What was Lutoslawski's name? Answer: Wladyslaw
Question: Which actor sang the song "I'm such a cold bastard already"? Answer: Michael caine
Question: What do we call an artist who depicts battle scenes in painting? Answer: Battle painter
Question: Which film was made earlier: "Man of Iron" or "Man of Marble"? Answer: "Man of Iron
Question: Is a panegyric a work of praise or derision? Answer: Praise
Question: From which continent do freesias originate? Answer: Africa
Question: What is a pac worth, according to the proverb? Answer: Nothing
Question: In which city is the Jack Malczewski museum located? Answer: Krakow
Question: Tonsura is a robe or a way of shaving the head? Answer: No
Question: In economics, determining the yield on capital is another way of cutting off what? Answer: Profits
Question: What are the paper curl wraps called? Answer: Tuck
Question: In the delta of which river is the city of St. Petersburg located? Answer: Neva
Question: Since what year has Alaska functioned as an independent state? Answer: 1959
Question: How many countries did Poland border in 1989 (not counting the maritime border)? Answer: Four
Question: What is the name of an unconventional treatment method that involves applying pressure to specific points on the patient's body? Answer: Acupressure
Question: What is the name of the woman in the Phrygian cap, a symbol of France? Answer: Marianne
Question: The representative of which trend in literature was Emil Zola? Answer: Naturalism
Question: What was the name of the author of detective novels, the creator of the character Hercule Poirot? Answer: Agatha christie
Question: In which European capital can we visit the Pergamon Museum? Answer: Berlin
Question: What is Latin for metabolism? Answer: Metabolism
Question: What is the three-minute fight period in professional boxing called? Answer: Round
Question: We sing: "Poszła Karolinka do Gogolina." From what region did Karolina originate? Answer: Poland
Question: Where is the soul of a man who is afraid? Answer: In his stomach
Question: What are the 12 chosen disciples of Jesus referred to as? Answer: Apostles
Question: From which Polish song come the words: "sooner the water in the sea dries up than in us there will be harmony"? Answer: The water is wide
Question: What was the name of the first representative of the Jagiellonian dynasty? Answer: Casimir iv
Question: What does "Opus Magnum" mean? Answer: Great work
Question: In what century did Henryk Wieniawski live? Answer: 19th
Question: Whose name was the airborne 303 Squadron named after? Answer: George Patton
Question: What is the name of the song sung to put a baby to sleep? Answer: Twinkle twinkle
Question: What is the name of the mysterious creature of unknown origin, the snow man? Answer: Yeti
Question: In what year was the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier built in Warsaw? Answer: 1920
Question: Who did Heracles strangle by lifting him up? Answer: The Nemean lion
Question: What do we call in Latin an extension of the term of a contract or a postponement of an obligation? Answer: Procrastination
Question: What was the name of the Italian variety of westerns created by Sergio Leone? Answer: Spaghetti western
Question: The founder of which movement was Robert Baden-Powell? Answer: Boy scouts
Question: Which organ fits in the pericardial sac? Answer: Heart
Question: Who played the lead role in the film "Last Tango in Paris"? Answer: Marlon brando
Question: What hydrocarbon is the main component of mud gas? Answer: Methane
Question: What animal is featured in the emblem of Venice? Answer: Lion
Question: How many perpendiculars does the segment have? Answer: Two
Question: Do seals live only in seas and oceans or also in lakes? Answer: Seals live only
Question: What is the name of the largest species of penguin? Answer: Emperor
Question: Are splinter and despondency the same thing? Answer: No
Question: How did the scholar Lavoisier die? Answer: He was guillot
Question: What is the name of the unit of sound intensity equal to 1/10 of a bale? Answer: Decibel
Question: What is the name of the musical instrument and tail of the black grouse? Answer: Drum
Question: Who is the head of state in Jamaica? Answer: Queen Elizabeth ii
Question: What did the legendary Basilisk kill with? Answer: A single glance
Question: Part of which ocean is the Yellow Sea? Answer: Pacific
Question: Is the red-tailed Amazon a species of ant or bee? Answer: Ant
Question: What is the term for the genre of literature we call science fiction in English? Answer: Science fiction
Question: What other colors, besides yellow and red, are on the Lithuanian flag? Answer: White
Question: From what language does the word strike come? Answer: French
Question: What was the name of the great Turkish drum? Answer: Daf
Question: A hoop made of plastic, which is set in motion by a rotating motion of the hips, is...? Answer: A hula ho
Question: One of the mythical gorgons and the sea urchin share a common name? Answer: Medusa
Question: Are Cappadocia and Languedoc historical lands located in the same country? Answer: Turkey
Question: Which country did Bob Marley come from? Answer: Jamaica
Question: Which celestial body casts a shadow on our satellite during a lunar eclipse? Answer: Earth
Question: What was the name of the Roman emperor's ancient bodyguard? Answer: Praetorian guard
Question: Does the wildebeest antelope have horns? Answer: Yes
Question: Which bay is Qatar located on? Answer: Persian Gulf
Question: Which animal according to the proverb walks its own paths? Answer: Deer
Question: What was the name of Oedipus' father? Answer: Laius
Question: In which month does the 100th day of the year fall? Answer: February
Question: Which pole of the Earth did Roald Amundsen conquer in December 1912? Answer: The south pole
Question: Is the raccoon prairie dog a predator? Answer: Yes
Question: In which city was Skamander active? Answer: Stockholm
Question: Is kale a traditional Ukrainian dish, a plant, or part of Hasidic clothing? Answer: Kale
Question: Whose wife in "Promised Land" was Madame Miller? Answer: Fred flintstone
Question: In which part of Dziady did Mickiewicz include "Letter to the Friends of the Muscovites"? Answer: The first part
Question: In which European capital does the Obelisk of Luxor stand in Concord Square? Answer: Paris
Question: Do cavernosaurs live in a terrestrial environment? Answer: No
Question: In which city does the sports and entertainment hall called Spodek stand? Answer: Katowice
Question: Who headed the PSL after the death of Wincenty Witos? Answer: Jerzy Dudek
Question: Maltese are a breed of which pets? Answer: Dog
Question: The lower tusks of the boar are sabers, and what is the name of the upper tusks of the boar in the hunting dialect? Answer: Tusk
Question: What is the name of the monument depicting a statue of a woman holding a burning torch and a plaque with the U.S. Declaration of Independence? Answer: Statue of liberty
Question: What was the name of the first dog in space? Answer: Laika
Question: Which plant is peanut oil made from? Answer: Peanuts
Question: What character did Clark Gable play in Gone with the Wind? Answer: Rhett Butler
Question: Did Alfred Nobel invent TNT? Answer: No
Question: In Egyptian mythology, what was the name of the guardian of the dead escorting them to court? Answer: Anubis
Question: Does Afghanistan border Iraq? Answer: Yes
Question: What was the name of a Polish actress named Jędrusik? Answer: Zofia
Question: What was the name of the imperial treasury under the principate? Answer: Domus aurea
Question: What is the name of the actress who twice played the role of Lara Croft? Answer: Angelina jolie
Question: What is the name of the square in London where Nelson's column is located? Answer: Trafalgar
Question: With whom did the thread dance in Jan Brzechwa's fairy tale? Answer: The princess
Question: Who was Morpheus' father? Answer: The Oracle
Question: Is the ruler of Oman a sultan, emir or king? Answer: Sultan
Question: What does foxtrot literally mean in English? Answer: Fox dance
Question: Can amendments be submitted during the second reading of the bill? Answer: No
Question: Was Stanislaw Kisielewski an MP? Answer: Yes
Question: Is Turkey a member of the EU? Answer: No
Question: In what film did Richard Chamberlain play the role of a priest torn between his vocation and love? Answer: The priest
Question: What chemical symbol does lead have? Answer: Pb
Question: Who was the father of Pegasus? Answer: Medusa
Question: In what century did the cult at Fatima begin? Answer: 20th century
Question: Who is the author of the work "On the Revolutions of the Celestial Spheres"? Answer: Copernicus
Question: For whom does Mrs. Rollison ask the Senator's favor in part III of Dziady? Answer: Mr. Rollison
Question: What disease did Nel, the heroine of "In the Wilderness and the Desert," contract? Answer: Malaria
Question: What is the simultaneous firing of multiple rifles or cannons called? Answer: Salvos
Question: Can European funds finance theater classes for people with disabilities? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the place where, according to the Revelation of St. John, the clash between the forces of good and evil is to take place? Answer: Armageddon
Question: What is the title of the equivalent of foreign minister in the US? Answer: Secretary of state
Question: At what age was Michelangelo born? Answer: 1475
Question: Which work by Zbigniew Herbert ends with the words: "Be faithful, go"? Answer: The road
Question: Labrador Basin, Guyana Basin, Angola Basin - these are the basins of which ocean? Answer: Atlantic
Question: What is the name of the best student in the class or school? Answer: Valedictorian
Question: For which era is the slogan "grassroots work" characteristic? Answer: The industrial revolution
Question: How many years is the term of office of the Polish president? Answer: 5 years
Question: In what city was the band The Beatles formed? Answer: Liverpool
Question: What is mammalian science called? Answer: Mammalogy
Question: What special property did Hades's helmet have? Answer: It could not be
Question: What does the phrase "in vitro" literally mean? Answer: In glass
Question: What is the pseudonym of the Polish self-taught painter Epifaniusz Drowniak? Answer: Epifaniusz
Question: Which Pole was the first to circumnavigate the Earth alone without calling at a port? Answer: Joshua Slocum
Question: Which Renaissance artist was famous for his woodcuts? Answer: Albrecht Durer
Question: In which city is the Basilica of the Holy Sepulcher located? Answer: Jerusalem
Question: The proposal to become president of which country was given to Albert Einstein in 1952? Answer: Israel
Question: Michelangelo's work "The Last Judgment" is it a fresco or a watercolor? Answer: Fresco
Question: What was the name of Russia's currency before the outbreak of the October Revolution? Answer: Rouble
Question: What is the name of the largest stadium in Poland? Answer: National stadium
Question: What was the name of the spider girl from Mai's Bee? Answer: Mai
Question: Which German chancellor was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize? Answer: Willy brandt
Question: Which peak is higher: Giewont or Kasprowy Wierch? Answer: Giewont
Question: In which country was gunpowder invented? Answer: China
Question: In what century was the Hague Convention banning dum-dum weapons concluded? Answer: 19th
Question: Which tropic passes through South America? Answer: Tropic of capric
Question: Are the Niechcic family characters from "Above the Niemen" or "Nights and Days"? Answer: Above the niemen
Question: In what year did the Korean War begin? Answer: 1950
Question: What does the Latin word "vivat" mean? Answer: Long live
Question: What was the name of Wokulski's beloved? Answer: Maria
Question: According to Ignacy Krasicki, "pleasant evil beginnings, but the end...?" Answer:
Question: What was the name of the pharaoh from "Pharaoh" by Boleslaw Prus? Answer: Ramses
Question: In which park stands the former Podchorążówka building, where the November Uprising began? Answer: Warsaw
Question: On which novel by Mark Hlaska was "Base of the Dead People" directed? Answer: The Dead Zone
Question: What, in French, is the name of the room in the theater where the audience stays during intermission? Answer: Foyer
Question: Are all angles acute in an acute triangle? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of the negative resolution regarding the government's actions? Answer: No confidence
Question: Is the Congo the longest river in Africa? Answer: Yes
Question: Which tree represents a person's family roots? Answer: Family tree
Question: Which Shakespearean character asks the question, "To be or not to be"? Answer: Hamlet
Question: What is the name of the bunch of flowers hung on a building to signify that its construction is nearing completion? Answer: Bunting
Question: Which country did Celsius come from? Answer: Sweden
Question: What is the name of the tennis match in which mixed pairs play? Answer: Mixed doubles
Question: Which instrument has more strings: the harp or the cello? Answer: Harp
Question: The army of which country was defeated by Napoleon in 1806 at Jena? Answer: Prussia
Question: In which city was Rudolf Höß, commandant of the Auschwitz camp, executed? Answer: Berlin
Question: How many digits does a PIN usually count? Answer: 4
Question: What is the title of the film by Marek Piwowski, which is set on a cruise ship? Answer: The cruise
Question: What is the name of the lines on the map that connect points with the same seabed depth? Answer: Isobath
Question: In the saying, we say that someone is bald like which part of the body? Answer: A mole
Question: What is the name of a flexible board that allows bumps when jumping into water? Answer: Wakeboard
Question: Lituanian Studies is the study of the literature and language of which country? Answer: Lithuania
Question: Kirys is the name of an incisive weapon, a firearm or part of a knight's armor? Answer: Sword
Question: In Islamic architecture, is the bab a window or a gate? Answer: Window
Question: Which fish is the largest? Answer: Whale shark
Question: Who formulated the law of universal gravitation in the 17th century? Answer: Sir isaac newton
Question: What is the name of an expert in handwriting analysis? Answer: Graphologist
Question: What is the name of the Polish submarine that destroyed 15 enemy ships during World War II? Answer: U.s
Question: In which modern country lies the historic land of Galilee? Answer: Israel
Question: What is the paddles used for? Answer: Rowing
Question: Is Iceland bigger than Ireland? Answer: No
Question: Which king established the Cracow Academy in 1364? Answer: Casimir the great
Question: What is the name of a two-person instrumental or singing ensemble? Answer: Duet
Question: What do we call dressing in the kitchen? Answer: Sauce
Question: What river can be seen from Drohiczyn Castle? Answer: The river Vist
Question: Which part of the clothing does the Frenchman mean when he says "chapeau bas"? Answer: Hat
Question: What was the name of the Albatross girl? Answer: Jane
Question: What is the name of the quick turn performed on the toes of one foot? Answer: Turnout
Question: The capital of which country is the city of Kathmandu? Answer: Nepal
Question: What does "casus belli" mean in Latin? Answer: Cause of war
Question: The platypus bird acquires food in a way that is unusual for songbirds - how? Answer: It sucks up
Question: At the bottom of which ocean do the Imperial Mountains rise? Answer: Pacific
Question: What is the name of the textbook for basic literacy? Answer: The abc's
Question: What is the set of all points of the plane that are equidistant from a single point called? Answer: A circle
Question: Are dahlia and georginia the same thing? Answer: No
Question: How many agents, "Charlie's angels" were there? Answer: Three
Question: Which tsar is depicted in the copper rider statue in St. Petersburg? Answer: Alexander ii
Question: In what year did the Spanish Civil War end? Answer: 1939
Question: The long white robe that the priest wears under the chasuble is...? Answer: Alb
Question: Who is the author of the poem "In the midst of discord, the Lord God strikes a huge bell"? Answer: William blake
Question: In what year did the U.S. declare war on Germany during World War I? Answer: 1917
Question: In Islam, what is inevitable fate, fatum called? Answer: Qadar
Question: Who is Dominikowa for Jagna in the novel "Peasants"? Answer: The mother
Question: A man in hot water is impulsive or rather calm? Answer: Impulsive
Question: What is the name of the branch of mathematics that deals with plane figures? Answer: Geometry
Question: In what year after the breakup of Yugoslavia did Croatia declare independence? Answer: 1991
Question: In the battle at which city with the Tatars did Henry the Pious die? Answer: Tannenberg
Question: What kind of coup took place in 1926? Answer: Military coup
Question: In which country is the city of Kandahar located? Answer: Afghanistan
Question: Popular in the U.S., apple pie is a shortcrust pastry with which fruit? Answer: Apples
Question: Are Catholic priests now bound by tonsure? Answer: No
Question: What was the name of the muse of the dance, whose attribute was the lyre? Answer: Terpsichore
Question: What color is the notion that you don't have? Answer: A sense of humour
Question: Fencing, chess, saber - the competitions of which sport? Answer: Judo
Question: In which mountains is Zawrat Pass located? Answer: Caucasus
Question: What geometric symbol exists on the ten-dollar bill? Answer: Square
Question: What rock is Gerlach made of? Answer: Granite
Question: What is it called to preserve meat by saturating it with saltpeter and spices? Answer: Salting
Question: Was Ladislaus Jagiello the first Polish king by that name? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the decorative outer garment worn over the alb? Answer: Amice
Question: Are secans and cosecans trigonometric functions? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of an aquatic spider that builds so-called bells underwater? Answer: Diving bell spider
Question: In what year did the Finnish-Soviet winter war break out? Answer: 1939
Question: What do we call the inverse operation of differentiation? Answer: Integration
Question: The monastery of which order is located in Swieta Lipka? Answer: Cistercians
Question: What were the names of noble knights in feudal Japan? Answer: Samurai
Question: Who first sailed to the coast of North America - the Vikings, the Phoenicians or the Chinese? Answer: Vikings
Question: Where did Caroline go in a Silesian folk song? Answer: To the mill
Question: "Submarine" is the English name for what kind of ship? Answer: Submarine
Question: What was the name of the daughter of Boleslaw the Pious, wife of Ladislaus the Short? Answer: Jadwiga
Question: What, according to the saying, is good for a fracas? Answer: A good pair of
Question: How many twenty-minute parts are in an ice hockey game? Answer: Two
Question: Please complete the proverb: "he wore the wolf several times...". Answer: Before he wore the
Question: How many days off on demand is an employee entitled to per year? Answer: 5
Question: What was the name of the discoverer of X-rays, Röntgen? Answer: Wilhelm Conrad Rö
Question: What was the name of the singer of the band Hey? Answer: Pete townshend
Question: Do woodpeckers fly away to warm countries from Poland for the winter? Answer: No
Question: What is hair removal called for medicinal or cosmetic purposes? Answer: Depilation
Question: What is the name of the bird that lays the smallest eggs? Answer: Bee hummingbird
Question: What day in December are the Nobel Prizes in Economics always presented? Answer: The 10th
Question: Is knock down the same as knock out? Answer: No
Question: For her role in which film did Vivien Lee receive an Oscar in 1940? Answer: The life of em
Question: Whose likeness appears on the dime bill? Answer: George washington
Question: During the reign of which king was the Bullion Commission established? Answer: William iii
Question: In what century did Bruno Schulz write "The Cinnamon Shops"? Answer: 20th
Question: What was Lilla Veneda's sister's name? Answer: Lilla
Question: What is the name of the speed skates? The word comes from the Russian skater? Answer: Roller skates
Question: In which city did the coronation of Stanislaw August Poniatowski take place? Answer: Warsaw
Question: Does New Zealand have left-hand or right-hand traffic? Answer: Left-hand
Question: Held in Munich, Oktoberfest is a celebration of which beverage? Answer: Beer
Question: During the reign of which queen did the union of England and Ireland occur in 1707? Answer: Anne
Question: What is the name of the author of the books "Karlsson from the Roof", "The Lionhearted Brothers"? Answer: Astrid lindgren
Question: Do torsions live in a terrestrial or aquatic environment? Answer: Aquatic
Question: Does diffusion occur in solids? Answer: Yes
Question: The virtuoso of which instrument was Franz Liszt? Answer: Piano
Question: A representative of which era of painting was French painter Eugène Delacroix? Answer: Romanticism
Question: Which Roman philosopher, writer is the author of the words: "the good of the people should be the supreme law"? Answer: Cicero
Question: What is a morbid fear of death called? Answer: Thanatophobia
Question: In which Polish city is Lake Czerniakowskie located? Answer: Warsaw
Question: The leader of which band is Ozzy Osbourne? Answer: Black sabbath
Question: Who was the director of the films "Whispers and Screams" and "Persona"? Answer: Ingmar bergman
Question: Has there ever been an image of Henryk Sienkiewicz on circulating banknotes in Poland? Answer: Yes
Question: Who in Adam Mickiewicz's fairy tale was already in the garden, already greeting the goose? Answer: The old man
Question: What was the name of the cunning fox in Maria Konopnicka's fairy tale about the dwarfs and orphan Mary? Answer: Reynard the fox
Question: Please decipher the abbreviation PTTK? Answer: Please turn to page
Question: A ridge is the sharp edge of a mountain slope or a mountain pass? Answer: Escarpment
Question: What is the name of the annual plan of anticipated state expenditures and revenues? Answer: Budget
Question: What gates is the proverbial ox staring at? Answer: The bars
Question: Finish: "the force of evil on..." Answer: The weak
Question: Who wrote the "Ode to Youth"? Answer: Schiller
Question: What was the name of Ali's dog from the primer? Answer: Nipper
Question: What forest did Winnie the Pooh live in? Answer: Hundred acres
Question: In sailing, what is the name for a wind that blows obliquely from the stern? Answer: Stern wind
Question: Was the city of Bonn part of West Germany or East Germany? Answer: West Germany
Question: Is oxidation accepting or donating electrons? Answer: Donating
Question: Who wrote the poem Laura and Philo? Answer: John keats
Question: What country other than China has access to the Yellow Sea? Answer: Korea
Question: Which modern country bears the Latin name Helvetia? Answer: Switzerland
Question: Did Norway participate in World War I? Answer: Yes
Question: In psychology, what is the name for the ability to express one's opinion clearly? Answer: Assertiveness
Question: At which German city in 1805 did Napoleon force the surrender of Austrian troops? Answer: Austerlitz
Question: Please state Tolkien's first name? Answer: John
Question: From sugar there was a king, from gingerbread a page - and from what a princess? Answer: Honey
Question: How many days does the president have to sign a law approved by the Diet? Answer: 10 days
Question: What kind of coal is mined at the Turow mine? Answer: Anthracite
Question: In what century were corn, tobacco, potatoes brought to Europe? Answer: 16th century
Question: What does the Crown of the Earth mean in mountaineering? Answer: The highest point on
Question: Which color, in addition to red and white, forms the flag of Yemen with them? Answer: Black
Question: What do the largest peninsula in North America and the Canadian hunting dog breed have in common? Answer: Labrador
Question: What two elements dominate the Earth's crust? Answer: Oxygen and silicon
Question: In which discipline was the Rimet Cup awarded? Answer: Football
Question: What is the name of the branch of zoology that deals with the study of arachnids? Answer: Arachnology
Question: Are tigers found in Africa? Answer: No
Question: In which European country is the highest and oldest order the Order of the Savior? Answer: Greece
Question: Which scientist discovered the law of pendulum motion? Answer: Galileo
Question: What was the name of the shuttle that made its last space flight? Answer: Atlantis
Question: How many days did Jesus fast in the desert? Answer: 40 days
Question: The district of which city is Oliva? Answer: Valencia
Question: In which Polish TV series did the characters Walus Kwiczoły and Jędrus Pyzdry appear? Answer: The good life
Question: Which Renaissance artist is the author of the painting "St. Anne of Solitude"? Answer: Raphael
Question: What was the name of the steel smelting furnaces known in Egypt as early as 3000 BC? Answer: Bessemer
Question: Was Hedwig, wife of Henry I the Bearded, canonized? Answer: Yes
Question: The virtuoso of which instrument is Kaja Danczowska? Answer: Violin
Question: What is the salary of a regular service soldier called? Answer: Pension
Question: What is the name of the largest lizard? Answer: Komodo dragon
Question: Is an alcove a piece of furniture, a weapon or part of a building? Answer: Part of a building
Question: Who commanded the Polish troops at Grunwald? Answer: Jan zaslav
Question: During the reign of which Polish king, according to the proverb, did the nobility die out? Answer: Casimir iii
Question: "Oh, news of the commune!" - From which work by Adam Mickiewicz does this quote come? Answer: Pan Tadeusz
Question: How many years did the war between Poland and the Teutonic Order that began in 1454 last? Answer: 116 years
Question: What is the name of the Jewish cemetery? Answer: Mount of olives
Question: Where was Koziołek Matołek headed in Kornel Makuszyński's book? Answer: The seychelles
Question: Which Polish writer described visions of glass houses? Answer: Joseph conrad
Question: How many two-characters are there in the word beetle? Answer: Two
Question: What is the boxing referee's command to order the fighters to step away from each other? Answer: Back up
Question: Within which country is the Kara-kum desert located? Answer: Kazakhstan
Question: What is the name of an old Polish silver coin worth a good joke? Answer: Zloty
Question: What was the code name of the Polish Army's action in 1947 to eliminate UPA units? Answer: Operation Vistula
Question: Which city did Hitler's troops besiege for 900 days? Answer: Leningrad
Question: Which actress played leading roles in the films "Blue Angel" and "Blonde Venus"? Answer: Marlene dietr
Question: Was Safona of the island of Lesbos a historical or mythical figure? Answer: Mythical
Question: Did Antonín Dvořák live in the 20th century? Answer: No
Question: What milk is missing from a person who has everything he or she desires? Answer: Self-esteem
Question: What does 4WD stand for on cars? Answer: Four wheel drive
Question: In which province is Gizycko located? Answer: Podlaskie
Question: Is there a Grand Slam in golf? Answer: Yes
Question: Did the poet Lucjan Rydel also create plays? Answer: Yes
Question: In which country was the "Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen" proclaimed? Answer: France
Question: Which coffee contains alcohol: Turkish or Irish? Answer: Turkish
Question: In which city did Slawomir Mrozek die? Answer: Krakow
Question: What was the name of the author of the novel "Faithful River"? Answer: Ernest hemingway
Question: In which Polish coastal city is the Fountain of Neptune located? Answer: Gdansk
Question: On which continent was Carthage located? Answer: Africa
Question: What was the name of the director of the first Polish film in 3D: "Battle of Warsaw"? Answer: Janusz kaminski
Question: Which Australian insects form huge mounds, 6 meters high? Answer: Termites
Question: Which is longer: a nautical mile or a kilometer? Answer: A nautical mile
Question: In which folk band did Irena Santor sing in the early days of her career? Answer: The new christy
Question: In which city is the Ross cemetery located? Answer: Dingwall
Question: In honor of which Greek goddess were panathenaeans held? Answer: Athena
Question: What does Venus have under her feet in Botticelli's painting titled. "The Birth of Venus?" Answer: Sea shell
Question: Are all vowels in the Polish language voiced? Answer: No
Question: What doesn't a resolute person blow into? Answer: A trumpet
Question: What was the name of American General McArthur? Answer: Douglas macarthur
Question: What was the name of the owner of the pastry shop where the Green Balloon group operated in 1905-12? Answer: William morris
Question: Was Torun part of the Duchy of Warsaw? Answer: Yes
Question: How many sons did the patriarch Jacob have? Answer: Twelve
Question: The dismissal of which worker caused the strike at the Gdansk Shipyard? Answer: Lech Walesa
Question: Part of which ocean is the Red Sea? Answer: Indian
Question: To which vegetable do we send back something that is good for nothing? Answer: Turnip
Question: What is the Greek name for a morbid fear of fire? Answer: Pyrophobia
Question: In what century was the last episode of "The Doll" published in the pages of the Daily Courier? Answer: 19th
Question: What was Michelangelo's name? Answer: Michelangelo
Question: What is the name of the aunt in Agnieszka Osiecka's song "Damą być"? Answer: Agnieszka
Question: Has Matołek the goat finally arrived in Pacanów? Answer: Yes
Question: By which sea is Inflants located? Answer: Baltic
Question: What is the name of the modified zirconium oxide that mimics diamond? Answer: Zirconia
Question: In which month of 1968 did student protests take place in Poland? Answer: May
Question: In prison dialect, what is an illegally smuggled letter called? Answer: A smuggler
Question: To whom does Oleńka from The Deluge address herself with the words: "Your wounds I am unworthy to kiss"? Answer: The hero
Question: What was the period from Christmas to Epiphany called in Old Polish? Answer: Krzyżowa
Question: Please give the formula for the volume of a cuboid with edges a, b and c? Answer: a x b x
Question: In which city was the premiere of Giuseppe Verdi's opera "Aida" held? Answer: Cairo
Question: What was the name of the traveler and soldier who made the conquest of Madagascar? Answer: Jean Laborde
Question: What vegetable is one of the main ingredients in kopytki? Answer: Carrots
Question: For whom was the camp called oflag intended? Answer: Rudolf Hess
Question: Is the Vatican a member of the United Nations? Answer: Yes
Question: In which city in the U.S. is the action of the film "Love or Throw" set? Answer: New york
Question: Which river with a length of about 300 km separates the US and Mexico? Answer: Rio grande
Question: In which American city was the Declaration of Independence signed? Answer: Philadelphia
Question: In which European city is La Sagrada Familia church located? Answer: Barcelona
Question: How many children did Moniuszko have? Answer: Four
Question: Does Monaco host Formula One rallies? Answer: Yes
Question: How many months begin with the letter L? Answer: Four
Question: What is the name derived from the Latin for wooden wall cladding? Answer: Plaster
Question: In which city does the medieval Tower fortress stand? Answer: York
Question: Leopard is a tank of what manufacture? Answer: British
Question: What is the English name for a hot sausage roll? Answer: Sausage roll
Question: What is the name of the archangel described in the Book of Daniel as the protector of the nation of Israel? Answer: Michael
Question: What is the name of the desert area within Mongolia and China? Answer: Gobi
Question: What is the name of the world's largest radio telescope in Chile, launched in 2013? Answer: ALMA
Question: How is the fin positioned in cetaceans: vertically or horizontally? Answer: Vertically
Question: What is the name of the square in front of the Royal Castle in Warsaw? Answer: Castle square
Question: Did the Hajduks in the Polish army in the 16th and 17th centuries fight on foot or on horseback? Answer: On foot
Question: What naked goddess did Actaeon catch a glimpse of in the bath? Answer: Artemis
Question: What is the name of the main church of the diocese at which the bishop's seat is located? Answer: Cathedral
Question: What is the name of Spain's parliament? Answer: Cortes
Question: What do the bowels play when we are hungry? Answer: They make us feel
Question: Which Argentine leader's wife was Evita? Answer: Juan peron
Question: Do Unitarian Christians recognize the supremacy of the Pope? Answer: No
Question: Which ballet by Pyotr Tchaikovsky features the characters of Odette and Siegfried? Answer: Swan lake
Question: Tribushon is an obsolete name for which item? Answer: A mattock
Question: What was the colloquial name for Soviet GAZ off-road vehicles? Answer: Gazelle
Question: In which cemetery is Chopin's grave located? Answer: Pere lachaise
Question: In what century did the Polish writer Mikołaj Sęp-Szarzyński live? Answer: 19th century
Question: Did Herbert von Karajan compose symphonies? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of the largest lake in Armenia? Answer: Lake sevan
Question: What was the name of Dr. Judym's beloved from "Homeless People"? Answer: Judy
Question: In which province is Pliskova located? Answer: South Bohemia
Question: Whose beloved was Dalila? Answer: Samson
Question: Is Oxford University located in London? Answer: No
Question: Tonkin is a rod-making material made from what plant? Answer: Bamboo
Question: In what year was the Treaty of Versailles signed? Answer: 1919
Question: What is the name of the lowest figure in the cards? Answer: Seven
Question: In hunting dialect, what are the hare's ears called? Answer: Ears
Question: In which city is West Side Story set? Answer: New york
Question: Przemysław Niemiec and Rafał Majka are Polish cyclists or speedway riders? Answer: Cyclists
Question: What distinguished the brave lead soldier in Andersen's fairy tale? Answer: He was the brav
Question: What street did Elmo and the Cookie Monster live on? Answer: Sesame street
Question: Of whom do we say that he "stopped the sun, moved the Earth"? Answer: Galileo
Question: What was the name of the Spanish painter of the 17th century, author of, among other things, "The Forge of the Volcano"? Answer: Francisco goya
Question: Which tragically deceased actor patronizes the award for best actor/actress of the younger generation? Answer: Heath ledger
Question: Stanza was the jester of how many kings? Answer: King lear
Question: Do rice and bamboo belong to the same plant family? Answer: Poaceae
Question: Is a rookie a petty criminal or someone young and inexperienced? Answer: Young criminal
Question: How many sides of equal length occur in an isosceles triangle? Answer: 2
Question: What was the name of the old trade route between China and Europe? Answer: Silk road
Question: In what language did Count Jan Potocki, author of the Manuscript Found in Saragossa, among others, write? Answer: Polish
Question: A conformist is a person who indiscriminately conforms to or opposes norms? Answer: A conformist is
Question: What did the peddler Jarema collect in the series "Civil War"? Answer: Cigarette cards
Question: Under which king was the Wilanów palace built? Answer: King John
Question: Ascorbic acid is what vitamin? Answer: Vitamin c
Question: How many rulers of Poland came from the Andegawen dynasty? Answer: 3
Question: What was the name of the Italian director, author of the film "Hidden Desire"? Answer: Luchino vis
Question: Miłosz, Żeromski, Reymont - which of them did not get the Nobel Prize? Answer: Miłosz
Question: Bouillabaisse soup made with fish, lobster, crabs is a delicacy of the cuisine of which country? Answer: France
Question: Thaddeus Andrew Bonaventure, fought for US independence. What is his name? Answer: Benedict Arnold
Question: What is the name of a parallelogram whose lengths of all sides are equal? Answer: Rectangle
Question: How many days is November? Answer: 30
Question: What was the name of the protector of artists, synonymous with the patron saint of the arts, who died in 8 BC? Answer: Saint lucas
Question: What is the second digit of the number pi? Answer: 3
Question: What is the name of the French actress who played the lead role in Krzysztof Kieslowski's "Three Colors: Blue" and "Sponsoring" films? Answer: Juliette Bino
Question: Is estragon an herbaceous plant or an enzyme produced by the liver? Answer: Enzyme
Question: Which book hero called his chosen one Dulcinea? Answer: Don quixote
Question: What was the name of the misanthrope, the main character of Midsummer? Answer: John
Question: What sport does Patrick Chan, a two-time world champion, practice? Answer: Figure skating
Question: In what century was the first Polish postage stamp issued? Answer: 19th
Question: What lake is Juliusz Słowacki's Balladyna set near? Answer: Lake malaren
Question: Which painter depicted Tadeusz Rejtan in his painting, who tries to prevent the partition parliament from deliberating? Answer: Jan Matejko
Question: Which wonder of the world do we call something overly delightful? Answer: Over the top
Question: What is the English acronym for the UN's agriculture and food agenda? Answer: FAO
Question: What is a short soldier's shoulder blade called? Answer: Scapula
Question: Who was Seweryn to Cezary Baryka in The Advance? Answer: The father
Question: What breed is the title character of the TV series Commissioner Alex? Answer: German shepherd
Question: How many circles did the quadriga have? Answer: Four
Question: What was the name of Zbyszek of Bogdaniec's uncle and guardian? Answer: Boleslaw
Question: What is the square root of nine? Answer: 3
Question: How many towers rise in the title of the second volume of the novel "The Lord of the Rings"? Answer: Two
Question: From which country does Junnan tea originate? Answer: China
Question: How many days is the first quarter of a leap year? Answer: 29
Question: Titian, Michelangelo, Leonardo da Vinci - they created in which era? Answer: Renaissance
Question: What color is used to describe macabre jokes? Answer: Black
Question: Who was the father of Shem, Cham and Japheth? Answer: Noah
Question: Is hafnium an element? Answer: Yes
Question: Which saint's name is borne by the road signs-crosses placed in front of railroad crossings? Answer: St. anthony
Question: What kind of water should be poured into an aquarium containing guppies? Answer: Distilled
Question: What used to be called inkaust? Answer: Ink
Question: What is the Polish name of the element calcium? Answer: Kalcium
Question: Which city did Batman live in? Answer: Gotham city
Question: Which country is Pope Francis from? Answer: Argentina
Question: What was the name of Thomas Mann's older brother? Answer: Heinrich
Question: What did the grandmother do with her rooster according to a folk song? Answer: She ate him for
Question: Which conference of the heads of the three powers took place earlier - at Yalta or Potsdam? Answer: Yalta
Question: In which city did St. Paul the Apostle die? Answer: Rome
Question: Who in "With Fire and Sword" competed with Skrzetuski for the hand of Helena Kurcewiczówna? Answer: Prince Potemkin
Question: In what field is the Koscielski Prize awarded? Answer: Chemistry
Question: Paul or Gavel - who "was peaceful and did not disturb anyone"? Answer: Paul
Question: Please elaborate on the acronym IPN. Answer: Internet protocol number
Question: Through what, according to the proverb, leads the way to a man's heart? Answer: Through his stomach
Question: Square meter how many square centimeters? Answer: 1,000,
Question: What is the subject of onejromance? Answer: One
Question: Who besides Jozef Pilsudski bore the title of Chief of State? Answer: Stanislaw stas
Question: Are there torpedoes in North America? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the tube that connects the eardrum cavity to the throat? Answer: Eustachian tube
Question: What sport was Coach Kazimierz Górski associated with? Answer: Basketball
Question: What is the name of the science that deals with the study of cells? Answer: Cell biology
Question: Which Dutch city was liberated on September 30, 1944 by Gen. Maczek's division? Answer: Arnhem
Question: Which country is the papal guard from? Answer: Switzerland
Question: Does Cambodia have access to the sea? Answer: Yes
Question: In which city are the Academy Awards galas held? Answer: Los Angeles
Question: What was the name of the Queen of the Baltic who loved a fisherman and had to suffer punishment for it? Answer: Sif
Question: What was the name of the American writer, the creator of the Jason Bourne character? Answer: Robert ludlum
Question: Do cereal grains contain starch? Answer: Yes
Question: In the Catholic Church, what is the rite of removal of Satan from a possessed person called? Answer: Exorcism
Question: Finish the proverb: "You ordered..." Answer: A horse of another
Question: Are actors Pawel and Rafal Królikowski related? Answer: Yes, they are
Question: Are carbohydrates sugars? Answer: Yes
Question: Which country did the famous director Alfred Hitchcock come from? Answer: England
Question: In which city was Nicolaus Copernicus born? Answer: Torun
Question: In which Polish city is the Gingerbread Avenue of the Stars located? Answer: Gdansk
Question: Which bird can imitate human speech: the nightingale or the warthog? Answer: Nightingale
Question: What is the name of one of the largest dams in the world on the Colorado River? Answer: Hoover dam
Question: What are the edible leaves of the onion called? Answer: Leeks
Question: What is the process of periodic skin shedding in amphibians and reptiles called? Answer: Mue
Question: What was the name of Horeszka's daughter, with whom Jacek Soplica was in love? Answer: Zosia
Question: Under which dynasty did the Szczerbiec become the coronation sword? Answer: The Jagiell
Question: Which country's king became William Alexander in 2013? Answer: The Netherlands
Question: In which series do Malgorzata Kozuchowska and Tomasz Karolak play the main roles of Natalia and Ludwik Boski? Answer: The Boski's
Question: What nationality was Willem Barents, who discovered the Strait of Spitsbergen? Answer: Dutch
Question: What is the name of the white dye of birch bark? Answer: Catechu
Question: How many years was Charles De Gaulle president of France? Answer: 12
Question: What, in Italian, was the name of a prisoner in the Nazi camps who acted as a caretaker for other prisoners? Answer: Capo
Question: What does Stanislaw Jachowicz warn against in the fairy tale titled. "Sick kitty"? Answer: The cat
Question: What is the name of the French revolutionary song, the anthem of France? Answer: La Marseillaise
Question: What is the name of d'Artagnan's homeland, a land in southwestern France? Answer: Gascony
Question: What is the name of the village on the Warta River with the Raczynski Palace and a cluster of old oak trees? Answer: Książ
Question: Under which king were the Crown Tribunal and the Lithuanian Tribunal established? Answer: King John
Question: The Bab-al-Mandab Strait also known as the "Gate of Tears" separates which two continents? Answer: Africa and asia
Question: What is the name of the largest modern amphibian? Answer: Chinese giant salamander
Question: Is the sea urchin an animal or a plant? Answer: Animal
Question: The mythological warrior woman and the great South American river are...? Answer: Amazon
Question: What is the ability to move objects without touching them called? Answer: Telekinesis
Question: A monument to which Polish national hero is located at West Point? Answer: Tadeusz ko
Question: From which village is the name of the Leszno Lake District derived? Answer: Leszno
Question: The district of which city is Tyniec? Answer: Krakow
Question: Did Anna Dymna star in all three films about Kargul and Pawlak? Answer: No
Question: Whose son was Ugedej, the great Mongol khan? Answer: Genghis khan
Question: Into which sea does the Nile drain? Answer: Mediterranean sea
Question: What is the target of the name Pinocchio: Pinocchio or Pinocchio to Pinocchio? Answer: Pinocchio
Question: How does the scouting greeting sound? Answer: Hello
Question: Rosette, angora, tortoiseshell - these are the breeds of which animal? Answer: Cat
Question: What used to be the name of ink in Poland? Answer: Inkwid
Question: Which of the great monotheistic religions is the youngest? Answer: Judaism
Question: What is the name of a wood carving artist? Answer: Grinling Gib
Question: Who was the first president of the PEN club, established in 1925? Answer: John Galsworthy
Question: What do we popularly call a hybrid, non-breed dog? Answer: Mixed breed
Question: Who do we say has sticky hands? Answer: A glutton
Question: Strip pricing is overpricing or underpricing? Answer:
Question: Is coronaroplasty a dental or cardiac procedure? Answer: Cardiac
Question: On which hill of Rome was the temple of Jupiter located? Answer: Capitoline hill
Question: What was the name of Slawek, the Speaker of the Sejm before the war? Answer: Stanislaw tarn
Question: In old Polish law, what was the name of an inheritance left without heirs or a will? Answer: A legacy
Question: How many competitions does the Nordic Combined consist of? Answer: Four
Question: What instrument does Woody Allen play? Answer: Clarinet
Question: In which part of the body is the organ of Corti located? Answer: Ear
Question: Who was the first to send a radio message across the Atlantic? Answer: Guglielmo
Question: Full, carriage, straight - these are terms from which game? Answer: Billiards
Question: The same name has a sticker with the name of the goods and the applicable behavior. Which one? Answer: Dove
Question: From which country does armaniak, a cognac-like alcoholic beverage, originate? Answer: Poland
Question: Which Song and Dance group was formed earlier: "Silesia" or "Mazovia"? Answer: Silesia
Question: What is the Latin name for presidential approval of an international agreement? Answer: Ratification
Question: Which French city was liberated by Joan of Arc in 1429? Answer: Orleans
Question: What is the name of the territory administered by two states? Answer: Condominium
Question: Who played the male lead in the movie "Naked Instinct"? Answer: Michael douglas
Question: A professor at which university was Jan Hus? Answer: Charles university
Question: Is the AH1N1 virus influenza or smallpox? Answer: Influenza
Question: What is the name of Europe's largest wild mammal? Answer: Bison
Question: What was Baba Yaga's hut made of in the Grimm brothers' fairy tale of Hansel and Gretel? Answer: Wood
Question: From which country does the Doberman dog breed originate? Answer: Germany
Question: From which dynasty did King Louis XV descend? Answer: Bourbon
Question: From which dynasty did Archduke Franz Ferdinand descend? Answer: Hapsburg
Question: What's not a rose in the title of Stanislaw Bareja's film starring Jack Fedorowicz? Answer: The rose
Question: Which god was hiding under the form of a swan during his tryst with Leda? Answer: Zeus
Question: What are the parallels with coordinates of 23 degrees 26 minutes called? Answer: Tropic of capric
Question: Who in Muslim tradition made the journey from Mecca to Jerusalem and later to heaven on a steed named Burak? Answer: Mohammed
Question: Who told the hero of Perfect's Autobiography to play such things that I am still ashamed? Answer: Noel coward
Question: 300 seconds - how many minutes is that? Answer: 5 minutes
Question: Which body part was Achilles' weak point? Answer: Heel
Question: Who played the lead role in the series "John Heart"? Answer: John hart
Question: How many stars are on the flag of Australia? Answer: Six
Question: Is Amnesty International a governmental or non-governmental organization? Answer: Non governmental
Question: What contemptuous term do wizards refer to ordinary people in Harry Potter? Answer: Muggles
Question: Do the pinch hitters play soccer or handball? Answer: Baseball
Question: Who played the lead role in the movie "Coincidence"? Answer: Sandra bullock
Question: Does Ujazdowskie Avenue in Warsaw belong to the Royal Route? Answer: No
Question: Which country was attacked as a result of the Barbarossa Plan? Answer: Poland
Question: Every how many years is the International Festival of Contemporary Music "Warsaw Autumn" held? Answer: Every two years
Question: Which plant reaches greater height: bamboo or sugarcane? Answer: Sugarcane
Question: What is the name of the city where Covent Garden was founded in the 18th century? Answer: London
Question: What was the name of Nel the heroine in The Desert and the Wilderness? Answer: Nel
Question: How many times was Indira Gandhi prime minister of India? Answer: Twice
Question: What is the name of the disease of poor vision in low light? Answer: Night blindness
Question: In what movie does a man in a white suit pluck lilies from a pond? Answer: The white shadow
Question: What was the name of a magazine coming out in the first half of the 18th century in London? Answer: The spectator
Question: What was the name of the Italian currency before the introduction of the euro? Answer: Lira
Question: What was the name of the title pilot from Stanislaw Lem's novel? Answer: Solaris
Question: What is the name of the outer garment in the shape of a rectangular piece of cloth with an opening for the head, used by Mexican herding tribes? Answer: Poncho
Question: Is an aquarist a person who raises fish in an aquarium or a painter with watercolor paints? Answer: Both
Question: What is the nominative plural of the noun sage? Answer: Sages
Question: Do traditional Venetian gondolas have rudders? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of the protuberance on the horse's back, behind the neck? Answer: Withers
Question: What is the name of the deepest place in the Atlantic Ocean? Answer: Milwaukee deep
Question: How many years is a Polish passport issued to adults valid? Answer: 10 years
Question: What was the name of the choir of revellers in which Mieczyslaw Fogg performed? Answer: The Warsaw gyp
Question: How many grams are equal to the English unit ounce? Answer: 28.34952
Question: From the name of which historical figure is derived the title of the ruler - emperor? Answer: Julius caesar
Question: Which September was the Polish Post Office in Gdansk attacked? Answer: 1939
Question: What is the name of a type of bicycle with a large front wheel and a small rear wheel? Answer: Penny-farthing
Question: Which dynasty reigned in Lithuania, Poland, Hungary and Bohemia in the 16th century? Answer: Jagiellonian
Question: How many total fingers does a person have? Answer: 10
Question: Please provide a solution to the riddle: doesn't eat, doesn't drink, but walks and beats? Answer: A clock
Question: Brussels sprouts are a variety of cabbage or pumpkin? Answer: Cabbage
Question: What is the French name for a list of works played in a given theater at a given time? Answer: Repertoire
Question: Who is the leader and soloist of the band Kult? Answer: Vangelis
Question: What does the spectacle of naumachia represent? Answer: Naval battle
Question: On which continent does the Gobi desert extend? Answer: Asia
Question: Who is the author of the "treatise on good work"? Answer: John ruskin
Question: In music, what is it called to perform a piece of music from sheet music without preparation? Answer: Impromptu
Question: Was Pandora's box full of perpetual goods as well as happiness? Answer: No
Question: The Black Hancza begins its course in Poland - and in what country does it end? Answer: Ukraine
Question: On what bay is Havana located? Answer: Havana bay
Question: What is the name of the outer layer of the Sun's atmosphere? Answer: Corona
Question: What is the speed limit in a residential zone? Answer: 30 mph
Question: Which Roman leader said "The dice have been cast" when crossing the Rubicon? Answer: Julius caesar
Question: What is the inscription on: "the living I convene, the dead I mourn"? Answer: A tombstone
Question: The epoch of what metal followed the Bronze Age? Answer: Iron
Question: What was the name of the designer of the first rigid airship? Answer: Count von Zeppel
Question: What was the name of the Spanish volunteer troops that took part on the side of Nazi Germany against the USSR in World War II? Answer: The division azul
Question: How many hulls does a catamaran have? Answer: Two
Question: What distance is the sprint in track cycling? Answer: 60 metres
Question: Which Polish city was one of the largest ports in the Baltic in 1938? Answer: Gdansk
Question: What is the name of the Roman god to whom the oak, wolf and woodpecker were dedicated? Answer: Faunus
Question: Based on whose book did Sydney Pollack direct the film "Farewell to Africa"? Answer: Karen Blixen
Question: In which part of the eye is the retina and macula located? Answer: Eye
Question: In ancient Rome, was the people's tribune an official defending the plebs or a foreign minister? Answer: Foreign minister
Question: Did Poland win the Olympic gold medal in men's volleyball? Answer: Yes
Question: Which river is the longest tributary of the Danube? Answer: The danube has
Question: Who is the creator of the paintings: "Saskia in the red hat", "Saskia as Flora"? Answer: Rembrandt
Question: What is the science of living organisms called? Answer: Biology
Question: What special name was given to the uprising in Sicily in 1282? Answer: Vespers
Question: In which country is the city of Bangkok located? Answer: Thailand
Question: What is the name of the sound made by the hen? Answer: Cluck
Question: What sport did Jacek Wszoła practice? Answer: Judo
Question: Do congruent figures have equal areas? Answer: No
Question: Which Ukrainian city is known for the Potemkin Steps? Answer: Odessa
Question: Monday is which day of the week in English? Answer: Monday
Question: What does the Latin "festina lente" mean? Answer: Hurry slowly
Question: What is the name of the Russian alphabet in use today? Answer: Cyrillic
Question: In what year did the UN begin its operations? Answer: 1945
Question: Are pistachio nuts and peanuts the fruit of the same plant? Answer: No
Question: What was the name of a king from Greek mythology whose touch turned everything into gold? Answer: Midas
Question: Hydrophobia is a panicky fear of? Answer: Water
Question: What was the name of India's first ever female prime minister? Answer: Indira gandhi
Question: The Cervantes Institute was established to spread which language? Answer: Spanish
Question: The parsec is a unit of distance used in which field of science? Answer: Astronomy
Question: The troops of which country suffered defeat during two battles on the Marne River during World War I? Answer: France
Question: What is the name of the pope's signet seal? Answer: Piscatory ring
Question: Is the livre a former Italian coin? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of trichloromethane, an anesthetic? Answer: Chloroform
Question: In what century was the Vienna opera house founded? Answer: 18th century
Question: What is the acronym for the British Royal Air Force? Answer: RAF
Question: In which archipelago is Pearl Harbor located? Answer: Hawaiian islands
Question: Who sings the song "On the Corner" to lyrics by Agnieszka Osiecka? Answer: Janis Ian
Question: What statuette is the top prize at the Berlin Film Festival? Answer: Golden bear
Question: What is the basic interval of the diatonic scale called? Answer: Tone
Question: How many radians does the solid angle count? Answer: 4
Question: What is the name of the bee family? Answer: Apidae
Question: What is the name of the crustal vibration detection instrument? Answer: Seismograph
Question: Does the novel "A Study in Scarlet" feature the character Sherlock Holmes? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the Latin name for a heartbeat that is too fast and strong? Answer: Tachycardia
Question: Gros is how many dozen? Answer: 12
Question: From which language was the term "wiktuały" borrowed into Polish to refer to food products? Answer: German
Question: What Roman goddess was identified with the Greek Aphrodite? Answer: Venus
Question: What were Poseidon's attributes? Answer: A Trident,
Question: What was the name of the young farmer, the hero of the Old Tale? Answer: Jack
Question: Who played Lusia in the movie "No Rose Without Fire"? Answer: Joan Collins
Question: In what year was the Jewish ghetto in Warsaw established? Answer: 1940
Question: On which day is the National Day of Remembrance of the "Soldiers of the Outlaws" celebrated? Answer: November – 11th
Question: Was Ernest Hemingway a Nobel Prize winner? Answer: Yes
Question: Has the band Bon Jovi ever performed in Poland? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the work containing a list of drawings and descriptions of coats of arms? Answer: Armorial
Question: At the mouth of which river is Kolobrzeg located? Answer: The Vistula
Question: In which city before World War II was the Racławice Panorama presented? Answer: Warsaw
Question: What is the average depth of the Baltic Sea - more or less than 100 m? Answer: 100 m
Question: What does "dura lex, sed lex" mean? Answer: The law is hard
Question: What country is Manuel Noriega from? Answer: Panama
Question: In which city is there a mosque named Heart of Chechnya? Answer: Grozny
Question: Who is the author of the paintings: "Storks", "Cranes"? Answer: Claude monet
Question: Which African country lies on the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea? Answer: Morocco
Question: What is the name of the branch of forensic science that establishes identity based on fingerprints? Answer: Fingerprinting
Question: Which novel by Sienkiewicz was filmed by Alexander Ford? Answer: Quo vadis
Question: On what river is the capital of Russia located? Answer: Volga
Question: Which American actor's real name was Marion Morrison? Answer: John wayne
Question: Which city in the 19th century was the seat of British authority in India? Answer: Calcutta
Question: From what country did the car contemptuously referred to as a soapbox originate? Answer: England
Question: What is the name of the device for accumulating an electric charge that has Rembrandt's hometown in its name? Answer: Leyden jar
Question: Which king hosted the feast given by Nicholas Wierzynek? Answer: Henry viii
Question: What is the name of a ritual Japanese suicide? Answer: Seppuku
Question: What color is the mineral azurite? Answer: Blue
Question: What was the highest title in the hierarchy of state positions in feudal Japan? Answer: Shogun
Question: Is a puppet a puppet put on an actor's hand or controlled by strings? Answer: A puppet is
Question: How many meters is a kilometer? Answer: 1000
Question: Who among the Big Three Tenors was Italian? Answer: Plcido domingo
Question: Which tempo is slower: andante or adagio? Answer: Andante
Question: Which actor, Francis Coppola's nephew, starred in the film "Leave Las Vegas"? Answer: Nicolas cage
Question: Who appoints ambassadors in Poland? Answer: President
Question: What dam created Lake Nasera on the border between Egypt and Sudan? Answer: Aswan dam
Question: What field of art were Edward, John and Joseph Reszka involved in? Answer: Sculpture
Question: La Cucaracha - what does the word mean? Answer: The cockroach
Question: What is the name of the involuntary repetitive contraction of facial muscles? Answer: Twitching
Question: From which part of the body does the fish begin to spoil according to the proverb? Answer: Head
Question: Was Andrzej Lapicki a member of parliament? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the diagram of brain function currents called? Answer: A flow chart
Question: What is the name of American actor Henry Fonda's daughter? Answer: Jane Fonda
Question: What is the name of a horizontal pit whose mouth is located on the mountainside? Answer: Sinkhole
Question: In which city did the main character of the novel "Around the World in 80 Days" start and end his journey? Answer: London
Question: What does "manus manum lavat" mean? Answer: A hand washes
Question: On what bay of the Baltic is Helsinki located? Answer: Gulf of Finland
Question: What field of art did Gerard Wilk practice? Answer: Painting
Question: What was the name of the goddess, Aeneas' mother? Answer: Venus
Question: What is the name of the American film director, creator of "Kill Bill," "Inglourious Basterds," and "Pulp fiction"? Answer: Quentin tarantino
Question: In which city is the Wieniawski International Violin Competition held? Answer: Poznan
Question: Where did Napoleon lose his last battle? Answer: Waterloo
Question: Which Italian composer dedicated an opera to the Hun leader Attila? Answer: Verdi
Question: Whose braid was moved as a constellation? Answer: Andromeda
Question: From which opera come the words: "the fir trees are humming on the mountain top"? Answer: The pines of
Question: What is the name of a word formed by rearranging the letters or syllables of another word? Answer: Anagram
Question: Which partition of Poland took place in 1772? Answer: Third partition
Question: In what city is the action of Galczynski's "The Enchanted Carriage" set? Answer: Warsaw
Question: What was the name of the Russian writer Dostoevsky? Answer: Fyodor
Question: Which branch of art did Phidias and Polyclet deal with? Answer: Sculpture
Question: In which country does the Bug River have its source? Answer: Poland
Question: Which princely family founded the oldest Polish museum, still operating in Krakow? Answer: Czartorys
Question: What two works of Heracles were related to horses? Answer: The capture of the
Question: What is the name of the game in which you use a ball to knock down posts? Answer: Cricket
Question: From whose name is the title of Verdi's opera "Nabucco" derived? Answer: Nabuchodonos
Question: How many kilometers does the Earth's radius measure at the equator? Answer: 6,371
Question: Bronowice is a district of which city? Answer: Krakow
Question: Since which century has Buckingham Palace been the official residence of the British royal family? Answer: Since 1837
Question: What is the name of the polygon with the least number of sides? Answer: Triangle
Question: What is the name of the scientific discipline that studies the state and structure of the population? Answer: Demography
Question: What ocean is the Maldives located on? Answer: Indian ocean
Question: The capital of which province is Katowice? Answer: Silesia
Question: In 1883, a volcano erupted on the border of Sumatra and Java - what was its name? Answer: Krakatoa
Question: What was the name of Eve Horeszko's daughter from Pan Tadeusz? Answer: Zosia
Question: What was the name of the little minded bear from the popular bedtime show? Answer: Winnie the po
Question: In which Caucasian state is the city of Gori located? Answer: Georgia
Question: Who played the role of Mr. Kleks in Krzysztof Gradowski's film? Answer: Jerzy kosinski
Question: Is Luxembourg a member of the EU? Answer: Yes
Question: What was the name of the founder of Arianism? Answer: Arius
Question: Does the prime minister attend the Cabinet meeting? Answer: No
Question: What is the Polish name of the constellation Libra? Answer: Złota
Question: In which country was Jaroslaw Smietana, a jazz musician, born? Answer: Czechoslovakia
Question: Can a solid change from a gaseous state to a gaseous state bypassing a liquid? Answer: Yes
Question: Who made King Midas grow donkey ears? Answer: Dionysus
Question: What does the term presto mean? Answer: Quickly
Question: What is trinitrotoluene otherwise called? Answer: Tnt
Question: Can the moon's surface temperature exceed 100 degrees Celsius? Answer: No
Question: Which metal is the best conductor of electricity? Answer: Silver
Question: What was the code name of the Council for Aid to the Jews? Answer: Joint
Question: The Super Bowl is the final game in which sport? Answer: American football
Question: What lady appears in the title of Peter Tchaikovsky's opera? Answer: Tatyana
Question: In what year did Nixon step down as U.S. president because of the Watergate scandal? Answer: 1974
Question: What is the name of the electric device that is used to prepare toast? Answer: Toaster
Question: Which painter painted the historical picture "The Election of Stanislaus Poniatowski"? Answer: Jan Matejko
Question: What is the name of Harry Potter's friend? Answer: Ron
Question: Complete the adage: everywhere is good, but... Answer: Home is best
Question: In which national park does Kasprowy Wierch rise? Answer: The pieniny
Question: Whose attribute is the trident? Answer: Neptune
Question: How many battleships did the Polish army have in September 1939? Answer: 2
Question: Is the adverb conjugated by numbers? Answer: No
Question: What was Stanislaw Wiechecki's nickname? Answer: The Polish general
Question: Which ruler in the early 13th century united the Mongol and Turkic tribes? Answer: Genghis khan
Question: What vehicles do Vuelta a España participants race each year? Answer: Bicycles
Question: According to whose collection of short stories did Wojciech Has make the film "Sanatorium Under the Sign of the Hourglass"? Answer: Bruno schulz
Question: What was the name of Vinicius' beloved? Answer: Livia
Question: What is the French name for a car with a folding roof? Answer: Cabriolet
Question: Which tree is referred to as a smrek in highland dialect? Answer: Rowan
Question: Is the Chinook a hot or cold wind? Answer: Cold
Question: Was Frederic Chopin's father, Nikolai, a Pole? Answer: Yes
Question: In the factory of what did the main character of the novel Carmen work? Answer: Chocolate
Question: How many times in a lifetime do agaves bloom? Answer: Once
Question: Which continent are the Pygmies from? Answer: Africa
Question: A bushel is an Anglo-Saxon unit of area, volume or radioactivity? Answer: Volume
Question: How old do you have to be to be elected to the Senate? Answer: 30
Question: What is the name of the system in which priests hold power? Answer: Hagiocracy
Question: In which city was Jan Matejko born? Answer: Krakow
Question: Is Moscow located on the Volga River? Answer: No
Question: What country does champagne come from? Answer: France
Question: In the film "The Dictator" Charlie Chaplin played a double role. And who was the writer and director of this film? Answer: Larry Charles
Question: Who played the female lead in the movie "Pretty woman"? Answer: Julia Roberts
Question: Which ocean is Chile located on? Answer: Pacific ocean
Question: Who played the role of Colonel Dowgird in "Black Clouds"? Answer: John gielg
Question: What is the name of the second largest pyramid in Giza? Answer: Pyramid of
Question: What is the smallest two-digit natural number? Answer: 10
Question: What is the name of a thin pancake made of flour and water, a specialty of Jewish cuisine? Answer: Matzo
Question: What were the names of the daughters of Atlas and Plejone, later transferred to the night sky? Answer: Pleiades
Question: What was the name of the album for which the photo was taken at Abbey Road? Answer: The Beatles
Question: What kind of animals build feeding grounds? Answer: Beavers
Question: What strait is known as the Pillars of Heracles? Answer: Straits of Gibraltar
Question: In what century was the Hanseatic League formally established in Germany? Answer: 13th century
Question: What does it mean to say that someone is in a blessed state? Answer: Blessed
Question: What are the names of the four front teeth in the maxilla and mandible? Answer: Incisors
Question: Which sea does Lebanon have access to? Answer: Mediterranean
Question: In Latin, what is the name for adapting a piece of music for stage performance? Answer: Adapting
Question: What is the name of the primitive laundry organ and the weight of the packaging of the goods? Answer: Dumbwaiter
Question: Please provide the name of the French actress with the initials B.B., who played, among others, in the film "And God Created Woman"? Answer: Brigitte bardot
Question: In what mountains did Mieczyslaw Karlowicz die? Answer: Tatras
Question: Is a strudel a meat dish or a cake with fruit? Answer: A cake with fruit
Question: On what continent is Guatemala located? Answer: North america
Question: What other zodiac sign, besides Cancer and Aquarius, is related to water? Answer: Scorpio
Question: What was the name of the 1717 Diet, during which no deputies spoke? Answer: The dumb Diet
Question: What is the name of the capital of Cyprus? Answer: Nicosia
Question: A region of which country is Andalusia? Answer: Spain
Question: What is the name of unwanted emails? Answer: Spam
Question: What do the letters QED written at the end of a logical argument mean? Answer: Quod erat demonstr
Question: In how many Polish cities did coronations of Polish kings take place? Answer: 5
Question: What was the name of the last Aztec ruler overthrown by the Spaniards under Cortez? Answer: Montezuma
Question: Who died blowing up Kamieniec Podolski? Answer: Jan Karski
Question: What is the name of the science that treats animal diseases? Answer: Veterinary medicine
Question: What is the name of a mollusk from the decapod family of cephalopods, whose secretions are used to make sepia? Answer: Cuttlefish
Question: What is the name of the plant where oil is processed? Answer: Olive
Question: What was Mrs. Dulska's name? Answer: Mrs. Duls
Question: What is the name of the mechanical musical instrument in which the tape activates the hammer mechanism of the piano? Answer: Clavivox
Question: Which work by Przybyszewski is a manifesto of Polish modernism? Answer: The Ballad of
Question: Which mode of transportation is used to carry the par avion shipment? Answer: Air freight
Question: What was the name of the French writer, Frederic Chopin's life companion? Answer: George Sand
Question: Absolute, theocratic monarchy still exists in Europe - in which country? Answer: Liechtenstein
Question: What fruit is the strong brandy Calvados made from? Answer: Apple
Question: Is a rhizome the underground or aboveground shoot of a plant? Answer: Underground
Question: How many wives did Henry VIII have? Answer: 6
Question: Matzevot are tombstones of followers of which religion? Answer: Judaism
Question: Under what form did Zeus seduce Leda? Answer: Swan
Question: Who cleaned out the stable of Elida's king Augias? Answer: Hercules
Question: Is a squadron an infantry or cavalry subdivision? Answer: Infantry
Question: Is potassium a metal? Answer: Yes
Question: From which royal family did Boleslaw III the Wrymouthed descend? Answer: Piast
Question: What sport does Maja Włoszczowska practice? Answer: Pole vault
Question: Is a mouse a species of mouse, bird, or rabbit? Answer: Mouse
Question: Are the quadriceps muscles in the front or back of the thigh? Answer: Front
Question: In which city is the film "The Pianist" set? Answer: Warsaw
Question: What is the name of an animal or plant organism that lives at the expense of another organism? Answer: Parasite
Question: In the novel "The Godfather," what was the name of Don Corleone's youngest son? Answer: Michael
Question: What nationality was the composer Georges Bizet? Answer: French
Question: In which Belarusian city was a Polish air base located? Answer: Baranovichi
Question: Who in the Dabrowski Mazurka set the Poles an example of how to win? Answer: Jan Dabrows
Question: Who invented the rabies vaccine? Answer: Louis Pasteur
Question: Under what three-letter acronym was a secret military organization known to bring together opponents of Algerian independence? Answer: O.A
Question: Which Greek physician is the author of the medical oath? Answer: Hippocrates
Question: Which country has land borders with Mexico and Canada? Answer: USA
Question: How long was Mephistopheles to be Mrs. Twardowska's husband? Answer: A year
Question: Which country fought the Opium War with China in 1839-42? Answer: Britain
Question: In which city is Schönbrunn Palace located? Answer: Vienna
Question: In what century did Jadwiga's wedding to Ladislaus Jagiello take place? Answer: 13th
Question: What was the name of the first antipope? Answer: Anacletus
Question: What was the name of the island to which Napoleon was exiled in 1814? Answer: Elba
Question: During the reign of which tsar did the January Uprising break out? Answer: Nicholas ii
Question: In what century did Tamerlan conquer the Golden Horde? Answer: 14th century
Question: What colors appear on the flag of Israel? Answer: Blue and white
Question: Bad mood is the result of getting out of bed with which foot? Answer: Left
Question: What animal appears on the coat of arms of Berlin? Answer: Bear
Question: What does the Latin "nolens volens" mean? Answer: Willing or un
Question: In which state is the city of Kolkata located? Answer: West Bengal
Question: According to Genesis, how many years did Matusalem live, 699, 969 or 999 years? Answer: 969
Question: Which Andersen tale describes the childhood of a certain swan? Answer: The snow queen
Question: The movements of which figure cannot be imitated by a chess hetman? Answer: Bishop
Question: In which country did the War of the Two Roses take place in the 15th century? Answer: England
Question: Which Wyspianski piece tells the story of Lucjan Rydel's wedding? Answer: The wedding
Question: In which European city is Sheremetyevo airport located? Answer: Moscow
Question: The Breton Peninsula is the westernmost part of which country? Answer: France
Question: Was "Pan Tadeusz" filmed before World War II? Answer: No
Question: What is the legal protection of state functionaries called? Answer: Immunity
Question: Which planet in the Solar System has the longest period of rotation around its axis? Answer: Jupiter
Question: What is the first part of the breviary prayer called? Answer: Matins
Question: The Florian Psalter of the late 14th and early 15th centuries is called the psalter of which queen of Poland? Answer: Jadwiga
Question: Which museum's collections can be admired in the Winter Palace in St. Petersburg? Answer: Hermitage
Question: Which ocean is the state of California located on? Answer: Pacific
Question: What do we call a minister without his own ministry? Answer: A minister without portfolio
Question: What is the name of the vehicle adapted to move on land and water? Answer: Amphibious
Question: Are there wolves in the Bialowieza National Park? Answer: Yes
Question: In what century was the International Red Cross founded? Answer: 19th
Question: Who invented the telephone? Answer: Alexander graham bell
Question: Was the world trade union federation established before or after World War II? Answer: After
Question: What is the Latin name for voluntarily cooperating with the enemy to the detriment of one's own state? Answer: Treason
Question: What was the name of the flying island in "Gulliver's Travels"? Answer: Laputa
Question: Who is the author of the collection of short stories entitled. "Cyberiad," published in 1965? Answer: Isaac asimov
Question: Who in China launched the Great Leap Forward and the Great Cultural Revolution? Answer: Mao tse tung
Question: What was the name of the colonel of the German General Staff who carried out the assassination attempt on Hitler? Answer: Colonel Claus von Sta
Question: On what continent did the Goths live? Answer: Europe
Question: What common name includes the islands of Cuba, Haiti, Puerto Rico, Jamaica? Answer: The Greater Antilles
Question: He returns from the war, and she in church says: "Your wounds I am unworthy to kiss". What song is this? Answer: The last waltz
Question: What feather does the krakowiak wear in his cap? Answer: A cockade
Question: Alpha, beta, gamma - these are the initial letters of which alphabet? Answer: Greek
Question: What is the name of the scene in the circus? Answer: The big top
Question: Is the exclamation point a distinct or unalterable part of speech? Answer: No
Question: Within which state are the cities of Jaipur, Rajpur and Madras located? Answer: Rajasthan
Question: Are the Brit Awards film, music or theater awards? Answer: Music
Question: In which city does the Gates of Dawn, also known as the Medininkai Gate, stand? Answer: Vilnius
Question: What is the process of recognizing someone as blessed in the Catholic Church called? Answer: Canonization
Question: How many children did Father Virgilius have in the popular children's game? Answer: Four
Question: Which ocean is El Salvador located on? Answer: The pacific ocean
Question: What, according to the proverb, doesn't one swallow do? Answer: A summer
Question: How do we play the viola - by leaning it against the shoulder or against the floor? Answer: Against the shoulder
Question: How many full weeks does a calendar year have? Answer: 52
Question: Has the construction of the Tower of Babel been completed? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of the smallest artillery unit consisting of a cannon and its operator? Answer: Howitzer
Question: A representative of which direction in painting was Artur Grottger? Answer: Expressionism
Question: From which country does sangria, a drink made from red wine and fresh fruit, originate? Answer: Spain
Question: What was Marshal Rydz-Smigly's name? Answer: Stanislaw
Question: In which city do soccer players play at the Santiago Bernabeu stadium? Answer: Madrid
Question: What is the name of the point in the Moon's orbit closest to Earth? Answer: Perigee
Question: What color is the beak of a male blackbird? Answer: Yellow
Question: On which continent were the so-called Boer Wars fought? Answer: Africa
Question: Who heads Pakistan - the prime minister, the president or the king? Answer: The prime minister
Question: Did Elizabeth II carry the title of Empress of India? Answer: Yes
Question: In the basin of which river are the Osowiec and Red reserves located? Answer: Vistula
Question: In which century did Boleslaw the Bold rule? Answer: 11th
Question: Who must when you order? Answer: The postman
Question: What is the name of a sanitation project to remove rodents? Answer: Rat-catching
Question: On the territory of which modern country was the Olmec civilization established? Answer: Mexico
Question: The districts of which city are the City and Westminster? Answer: London
Question: Is cheddar cheese a hard or soft cheese? Answer: Hard
Question: From which country did the so-called Red Brigades originate? Answer: Italy
Question: In what age was Thomas A. Edison born? Answer: 1847
Question: Does the A2 freeway cross Poland from east to west or from north to south? Answer: From east to west
Question: How many players does an ice hockey team have? Answer: 6
Question: What is the higher degree of the adverb "well"? Answer: Well
Question: What is the name of a strong Portuguese wine from an island in the Atlantic Ocean? Answer: Madeira
Question: What is the name of the soft men's cap worn to sleep? Answer: Sleep cap
Question: Which two seas are connected by the Corinth Canal? Answer: Aegean and I
Question: What color is the black stork's beak? Answer: Black
Question: How do we define nervousness in an actor before a stage performance? Answer: Stage fright
Question: What was the name of the commander of the defense of Westerplatte? Answer: General wład
Question: In which city is the Stu Theatre located? Answer: St. Louis
Question: What is the greatest depth of the Baltic Sea? Answer: 1,235 m
Question: What American city is located on Staten Island and Long Island, among others? Answer: New York
Question: Is Cuba a member of the United Nations? Answer: Yes
Question: Who was the Speaker of the Four-Year Sejm at the time the May 3 Constitution was passed? Answer: Stanislaw kaczynski
Question: In which river did Thetis bathe her son Achilles? Answer: River Styx
Question: Which order did James Wujek belong to? Answer: The order of the
Question: What is a genetically determined lack or deficiency of melanin called? Answer: Albinism
Question: In folk tales, what is the name of the devil guarding the treasures of the castle in Leczyca? Answer: The Devil
Question: What do we call performance without words, acting expressed through facial expressions? Answer: Pantomime
Question: What were the names of the Spanish rulers who signed the edict banishing all Sephardic Jews from Spain in 1492? Answer: Ferdinand and Isabella
Question: Which lens focuses the rays more strongly - with a shorter or longer focal length? Answer: A shorter focal length
Question: Does the total length of the Kasprowy Wierch cable car exceed three kilometers? Answer: Yes
Question: In what city is the action of the opera Carmen set? Answer: Seville
Question: Is ASEAN an organization of African or Asian countries? Answer: Asian
Question: In what year did Germany attack the USSR? Answer: 1941
Question: What was the name of Chałubiński, a physician and promoter of Zakopane's medicinal qualities? Answer: Jan zacharias
Question: Who in Poland appoints judges? Answer: President
Question: The same name is given to the hand-thrown projectile, semi-precious stone and southern fruit. Which one? Answer: Boomerang
Question: What is the name of a celestial body that sends out cyclic pulses of radiation? Answer: Pulsar
Question: Which U.S. daily newspaper made the Watergate scandal public? Answer: Washington post
Question: How much is the speed limit on highways in Poland? Answer: 130 km/h
Question: When was the Chrysler skyscraper built in New York: before World War I or after? Answer: After
Question: MI6 and MI5 are the intelligence and counterintelligence of which country? Answer: United Kingdom
Question: What nationality was Ferenc Molnar, author of "The Boys from the Bronze Square"? Answer: Hungarian
Question: What is the name of an optical recording format that uses a blue laser? Answer: Blu-ray
Question: In how many parts is the so-called Venetian window divided vertically? Answer: Three
Question: What is the name of the lower house of the British Parliament? Answer: House of commons
Question: Who played the role of Wolodyjowski in Hoffmann's "With Fire and Sword"? Answer: Richard Burton
Question: From which continent do the Tuaregs originate? Answer: Africa
Question: Is National Geographic magazine published in Polish? Answer: No
Question: How many countries does Mongolia border? Answer: 4
Question: Can it be school, registration, Mendeleyev? Answer: Chemistry
Question: What was the fourth wagon in Julian Tuwim's poem full of? Answer: Wheat
Question: How many children does Lech Walesa have? Answer: 3
Question: In what year was the Battle of Borodino fought? Answer: 1812
Question: Which European country has the lowest population density? Answer: Iceland
Question: What is the name of the camera's flash? Answer: Flashes
Question: Does Vaseline dissolve in water? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of the series of three literary works? Answer: The lord of the
Question: What was the name of the fairy-tale sailor whose adventures were described by Boleslaw Lesmian, among others? Answer: The Black Peter
Question: How many diagonals in a rectangle can be drawn from a single vertex? Answer: 4
Question: Was Han Solo a Jedi knight? Answer: No
Question: The swearing-in of which president ended the mission of the government-in-exile? Answer: Franklin d. ro
Question: How many official languages are there in South Africa? Answer: 11
Question: Which king founded the Academy of the Noble Cadet Corps? Answer: King George vi
Question: What was topped with an apple, a symbol of royal power? Answer: A crown
Question: In what century did Seneca the Younger live? Answer: 1st century ad
Question: What is 1/100th of a euro called? Answer: Cent
Question: The capital of which country is Nairobi? Answer: Kenya
Question: In which city is the action of the novel "The Plague" by Albert Camus set? Answer: Oran
Question: A bridge contract announcing the taking of twelve levs is called by another name? Answer: A grand slam
Question: Who else besides the fighters is in the boxing ring? Answer: The referee
Question: In which mountains is Chryszczata peak located? Answer: Tatras
Question: What shape is the Greek letter delta? Answer: A triangle
Question: Who composed the orchestral piece "Threnody to the Victims of Hiroshima"? Answer: John cage
Question: What is the name of the part of the skeleton that protects the spinal cord? Answer: Vertebral column
Question: In which European country is Grenoble located? Answer: France
Question: In which country is the cave with Paleolithic Altamira paintings located? Answer: Spain
Question: Do juwenalia and juwenilia have the same meaning? Answer: No
Question: In which country is the Order of the National Legion of Honor conferred? Answer: France
Question: What is the name of the largest port in Europe? Answer: Rotterdam
Question: What was the name of the Italian violinist Paganini? Answer: Niccolo
Question: Who played the title role in the comedy Kiler? Answer: John cleese
Question: According to the proverb - to leave without having settled anything is to leave with...? Answer: A bad name
Question: Does the Vatican have its own radio station? Answer: Yes
Question: What name did God give Jacob? Answer: Israel
Question: In what century did Ludwig Warynski live? Answer: 19th century
Question: Who is the head of Australia? Answer: Queen elizabeth ii
Question: How many time zones is the globe divided into? Answer: 24
Question: How many times has Zdzislaw Szurkowski triumphed in the peace race? Answer: Twice
Question: Who is the head of state in Sweden? Answer: King carl x
Question: In which city is the Wujek mine located? Answer: Krakow
Question: What do we dilute rum with to make grog? Answer: Water
Question: What is the name of a town in Lublin Province famous for breeding purebred Arabian horses? Answer: Zawady
Question: What is the name of the German astronomer who constructed the three laws of planetary motion? Answer: Johannes kepler
Question: What was the name of Jozef Pilsudski's adjutant? Answer: Stanislaw Mikol
Question: In which European capital is Piccadilly Circus square located? Answer: London
Question: What title was given to royal sons in Spain and Portugal? Answer: Prince
Question: Which Dutch painter painted the picture "Eating potatoes"? Answer: Vincent van gogh
Question: Did the Polish and Lithuanian hetmans appointed by the king also command the common army? Answer: Yes
Question: Are puff peas a plant or a baked good? Answer: A plant
Question: On which continent does the buttonfish live? Answer: Australia
Question: What was the name of the sports club whose president was Richard Ochódzki in "The Bear"? Answer: The club
Question: What is a morbid fear of heights called? Answer: Acrophobia
Question: Which word was used to describe court ladies? Answer: Dame
Question: What is the name of aluminum oxide, the mineral hardest after diamond? Answer: Corundum
Question: What is the name of the smallest bird? Answer: Bee hummingbird
Question: Who is the author of the poem "What the elephant saw"? Answer: Rudyard kipling
Question: On what occasion were the words "It's a small step for man, but a big one for mankind" uttered? Answer: Neil armstrong
Question: What does "bis dat qui cito dat" mean? Answer: He who gives quickly
Question: What is the French name for a lamp cover? Answer: Abat-jour
Question: In which river do the fish sing in Arkady Fiedler's novel? Answer: The volga
Question: In what century did Offenbach compose the operetta "Beautiful Helena"? Answer: 19th century
Question: How many rivers are in the fountain in Piazza Navona in Rome? Answer: Four
Question: Which drink is the samovar used to prepare? Answer: Tea
Question: What is the name of an honorary degree conferred by universities? Answer: Doctor of letters
Question: The ore of which metal is sphalerite? Answer: Zinc
Question: How often does the EU presidency change? Answer: Every six months
Question: Which tsar of Russia was Stefan Batory at war with? Answer: Ivan the Terrible
Question: What is the name of the watertight circular window on the ship? Answer: Skylight
Question: What is the name of the tactic of naval combat involving the tacking of ships and the fighting of crews? Answer: Tacking
Question: What news station did Ted Turner found? Answer: CNN
Question: In hunting dialect, what are deer antlers called? Answer: Antlers
Question: Which seasons does April intertwine? Answer: Spring and summer
Question: Are leukocytes white blood cells or red blood cells? Answer: White blood cells
Question: The German city that was the meeting place of the victorious three in 1945 is? Answer: Yalta
Question: "Today's doctor is a doctor of rich people" - from which novel does this quote come? Answer: Middlemarch
Question: What was the name of the Swiss psychiatrist who introduced the concepts of introversion and extroversion? Answer: Carl jung
Question: What river is the capital of the United States, Washington, D.C., located on? Answer: Potomac
Question: Antonovka is a variety of which fruit? Answer: Apple
Question: What was the name of the fascist party formed in Spain in 1933? Answer: Falange
Question: Is kindziuk a regional sausage or a plant? Answer: Plant
Question: In Scandinavian mythology, what were the names of the armed virgins, handmaidens of the god Odin, who heralded death to warriors on the battlefield? Answer: Valkyries
Question: What is the name of Szymanowski's villa in Zakopane? Answer: Szaflary
Question: What term do we use to describe killing and eating individuals of the same species? Answer: Cannibalism
Question: By which sea is the city of Lübeck located? Answer: Baltic
Question: Did Archimedes die a natural death? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the Latin name for an official reminder of financial arrears? Answer: Demand note
Question: What is the name of the samurai code of honor? Answer: Bushido
Question: Has a Polish woman ever become Miss World? Answer: Yes
Question: From which part of the habit is the Capuchins named? Answer: The capuchin
Question: The jersey in which color is worn by the Tour de France race leader? Answer: Yellow
Question: Who painted the curtain for the theater in Krakow in 1894? Answer: Stanislaw Wysp
Question: "It is sweet and honorable to die for the fatherland" - who is the author of these words? Answer: Friedrich von schiller
Question: Italian, Pekingese - which vegetable is it? Answer: Cabbage
Question: What is the Russian name for a shirt popular especially in the 19th century? Answer: Shirt
Question: What was a paid dance partner in entertainment venues called? Answer: A floozy
Question: After the 1969 moon landing, did the Americans land there again? Answer: Yes
Question: In which country is Calderon's play "Life is a Dream" set? Answer: Spain
Question: What is the Greek name for the art of litigation? Answer: Logos
Question: What did John Dunlop invent in 1888? Answer: Pneumatic ty
Question: Which city is the film "Tonight the City Will Die" about? Answer: Berlin
Question: Whose seat was Parnassus? Answer: Apollo
Question: The Côte d'Azur is located on the territory of which country? Answer: France
Question: In French and German, what do we call surrounding meat in egg and breadcrumbs? Answer: En brochette
Question: What was the name of the German philosopher, author of the "Critique of Pure Reason," who lived in Königsberg? Answer: Immanuel kant
Question: What is the Greek name for the branch of physics that deals with sounds? Answer: Acoustics
Question: What astronomer is the name of the airport in Wroclaw? Answer: Copernicus
Question: What is the name of a pocket watch chain? Answer: Chain
Question: Which plant was dedicated to Apollo, symbolizing glory? Answer: Laurel
Question: What is the Polish name for NATO? Answer: NATO
Question: What is the French name for an obstacle course? Answer: Parcours
Question: The Masai are a people living on the border between Kenya and which country? Answer: Tanzania
Question: Who was the king of Poland during the Battle of Plowce in 1331? Answer: Casimir iii
Question: What is garden goldenseal otherwise called? Answer: Goldenseal
Question: Are the Przewalski's horse and the Polish horse the same thing? Answer: No
Question: Is the word half a numeral? Answer: No
Question: Under which Polish king did the Kosciuszko Uprising break out? Answer: Stanislaw ii
Question: Who was the serpent in paradise? Answer: Satan
Question: Which poet is the author of the poetry collections "Blue Almonds", "Pink Magic"? Answer: Robert frost
Question: What was the name of the island where the Count of Monte Christo found the treasure? Answer: Monte Cristo
Question: In the Catholic Church, what is the name of the decorative Easter candle? Answer: Candle of the
Question: What color is the spring snowflake flower? Answer: White
Question: In which Polish mountains is the Murowaniec mountain hut located? Answer: Tatras
Question: What is the name of the highest peak in the Bieszczady Mountains? Answer: Rysy
Question: "Yes, revenge, revenge on the enemy, with God and if only in spite of God" - who utters these words in the third part of "Dziady" by Adam Mickiewicz? Answer: The old man
Question: Kapuscinski's "Shakhinesh" tells the story of which country? Answer: Afghanistan
Question: From which country does the fast ballroom dance paso doble originate? Answer: Spain
Question: Who captured Persepolis in 334? Answer: Alexander the Great
Question: Please complete the adage: an eye for an eye,...? Answer: Blinds the world
Question: Are porthole and porthole the same thing? Answer: No
Question: Which of the four planets closest to the Sun has the greatest mass? Answer: Jupiter
Question: What is the official language of San Marino? Answer: Italian
Question: What is the name of the direction in the theory of cognition according to which the main way of knowing is intuition? Answer: Holistic
Question: What was the name of the witch in "With Fire and Sword"? Answer: Morgaine le fey
Question: What is the French name for a street antiquarian? Answer: Antiquaire
Question: Is tuna a marine or freshwater fish? Answer: Tuna is a
Question: The OAS is a secret French organization in which African colonial state? Answer: Chad
Question: In which novel by Eliza Orzeszkowa is the love of John and Justyna the main plot? Answer: The love of john
Question: How many islands are included in the Pelagian Islands, which belong to Italy? Answer: Two
Question: Who built the labyrinth for the Minotaur? Answer: Daedalus
Question: Irina, Masha, Natasha or Olga - what was not the name of one of Anton Chekhov's sisters? Answer: Maria
Question: In which European capital does Big Ben measure the hours? Answer: London
Question: What was the name of the author of the book "The Name of the Rose"? Answer: Umberto eco
Question: What is the name of the collar fastened at the back worn by the clergy? Answer: Collar
Question: Please provide the name of the actor playing the role of Lucjan Mostowiak. Answer: Robert Wieckiewicz
Question: What is the name of the mausoleum in Paris, where Marie Skłodowska-Curie, Voltaire, Victor Hugo, among others, are laid to rest? Answer: Pantheon
Question: Which French actress gave up her career in 1975 to establish a foundation for the protection of endangered wild animals? Answer: Brigitte bardot
Question: What was the name of the writer Herling-Grudzinski? Answer: Joseph conrad
Question: What is the name of an electronic lamp containing three electrodes? Answer: Triode
Question: What is the name of an Indian boat hollowed out of a single piece of wood? Answer: Raft
Question: Which animal encircled the staff of Asklepios, the god of the art of medicine? Answer: Serpent
Question: Who invented the perpetual motion machine? Answer: Robert Boyle
Question: Which planet orbits at a greater distance from the Sun than the Earth - Mars or Venus? Answer: Venus
Question: What is the Greek name for a native, an indigenous inhabitant of some lands? Answer: Ethnos
Question: The Goethe Institute's mission is to popularize which language and culture? Answer: German
Question: In which city can we walk down Piotrkowska Street? Answer: Warsaw
Question: Do storks eat mice? Answer: No
Question: In which country does the San River have its source? Answer: Peru
Question: What was the name of Frodo and Bilbo, the heroes of Tolkien's trilogy? Answer: Frodo and Bilbo
Question: In what year did the first Silesian uprising take place? Answer: 1740
Question: What instrument does the flute player play? Answer: Flute
Question: In which country was the suffragette movement founded in 1848? Answer: England
Question: Which Greek titan swallowed his descendants in fear of losing power? Answer: Cronus
Question: Which peninsula separates the Gulf of Mexico from the Atlantic Ocean? Answer: Florida
Question: "A song is good for everything". - Which cabaret performed this song? Answer: Cabaret
Question: What is the name of the Muslim cleric who calls for prayer 5 times a day? Answer: Muezzin
Question: How many legs do insects have? Answer: Six
Question: In which city is the International Labor Organization located? Answer: Geneva
Question: What is the name of the main square in Venice? Answer: St mark's square
Question: What is the official language in Nicaragua? Answer: Spanish
Question: What instrument did Johann Sebastian Bach play? Answer: Organ
Question: Is cottonseed oil edible? Answer: No
Question: With what can you repay the favor? Answer: With a favor
Question: In which city is the Maracanã soccer stadium located? Answer: Rio de janeiro
Question: Which African country is the most populous? Answer: Nigeria
Question: According to the proverb, who burns in the old stove? Answer: Old bones
Question: How many letters are in the classical Greek alphabet? Answer: 24
Question: In what century was Austria-Hungary founded? Answer: 18th
Question: Kalwaria Zebrzydowska is home to the monastery of which order? Answer: Carmelites
Question: What is the name of the strong drug and the main character in the drama; the word comes from Greek? Answer: Heroin
Question: Is a muffin a clothing item, a type of game or a cake? Answer: A type of cake
Question: Is Coco the real name of Chanel? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of the alliance of Australia, New Zealand and the U.S.? Answer: ANZUS
Question: Which actress played the lead role in the series "Life on the Spillway"? Answer: Joan sims
Question: What kind of numerals are: "first", "second"? Answer: Ordinal
Question: What is the name of the room at Wawel Castle, where the ceiling is decorated with coffers with human heads? Answer: The Chamber of the
Question: In what year was the Kingdom of Poland, also known as the Congress Kingdom, established? Answer: 1815
Question: Bellona was the Roman goddess of what? Answer: War
Question: What is the name of the platform or basket placed on top of the mast? Answer: Topmast
Question: What is the name of a Brazilian musical style containing elements of samba? Answer: Bossa nova
Question: In which country is The Economist magazine published? Answer: United Kingdom
Question: Was Diego Velazquez a Dutch or Spanish painter? Answer: Spanish
Question: What is the name of the beautiful gypsy girl, the title character of Georges Bizet's opera? Answer: Carmen
Question: What is the name of the American actress, Woody Allen's former partner, who played the title role in Roman Polanski's Rosemary's Baby? Answer: Mia farrow
Question: The Cracow Rondel is the name of which historic building in the city? Answer: The castle
Question: What is the name of the highest male voice? Answer: Countertenor
Question: The shape of which mathematical figure are pyramids? Answer: Triangular
Question: In which city in Poland was the Radium Institute established on the initiative of Marie Sklodowska-Curie? Answer: Warsaw
Question: Polish jazzman Adam Makowicz is a trumpeter, pianist or violinist? Answer: Pianist
Question: Which punctuation mark isolates quotes in the text? Answer: Quotation mark
Question: Are there streetcars running around Poznań? Answer: Yes
Question: What color is the cross on the back of the crossbreed spider? Answer: Black
Question: In what year was the so-called "Silent Sejm" held? Answer: 1791
Question: In which country is Serie A played? Answer: Italy
Question: In which city did Sherlock Holmes live? Answer: London
Question: How many vowels are in the word voiced? Answer: 2
Question: Is an oryx an antelope, a dog or a cat? Answer: An antelope
Question: What sport did Szozda play? Answer: Football
Question: Does the fir tree shed its needles for the winter? Answer: No
Question: How many times in the 20th century have the Olympic Games not been held? Answer: 3
Question: In which country was Albert Einstein born? Answer: Germany
Question: What is the Greek name for a pressure measuring device? Answer: Barometer
Question: What is the name of the sailing and rowing competitions from Italian? Answer: Regatta
Question: In what year did the U.S. officially enter the war? Answer: 1917
Question: What is the French name for a foot, nail care treatment? Answer: Pedicure
Question: What was the real name of silent film star Pola Negri? Answer: Pola Negri
Question: In what does not write something that was and is not? Answer: An autobiography
Question: What did the magpie weigh in the children's poem? Answer: A penny
Question: What is the name of the honorary flag assistants? Answer: Flag sergeants
Question: Is tumulus a cloud or a barrow? Answer: Barrow
Question: Does the highway code provide exceptions to the use of seat belts? Answer: Yes
Question: Mahatma is a title given to prominent spiritual leaders given in which country? Answer: India
Question: Which two countries were connected by a bridge over the Sound in 2000? Answer: Denmark and Sweden
Question: What is the name of the city that is the capital of Thailand? Answer: Bangkok
Question: What river flows through Jelenia Góra? Answer: Odra
Question: In what language was Warszawianka written in the original? Answer: Polish
Question: Up to how many years in Poland is schooling compulsory? Answer: 18
Question: Whose life is described in the book entitled. "Moonwalk?" Answer: Michael jackson
Question: The eruption of which volcano destroyed ancient Pompeii in 79 AD? Answer: Vesuvius
Question: How many arms do squid have? Answer: Eight
Question: Does an amoeba have a shape? Answer: No
Question: Is the eyepatch a venomous snake? Answer: No
Question: A variety of which fruit tree is the kronsel? Answer: Apple
Question: Which river is longer: The Amazon or the Mississippi? Answer: The Amazon
Question: Getting a watermelon means what? Answer: Getting a ripe
Question: What was the name of the lion from "The Chronicles of Narnia"? Answer: Aslan
Question: What number does LX stand for? Answer: 60
Question: Who is the head of state in Ireland - the prime minister, the president or the queen? Answer: The president
Question: Is Camorra the name of the Italian or Spanish Mafia? Answer: Italian
Question: Who played the role of Tom in "Turned Back"? Answer: John Hurt
Question: What animals are associated with singerie motifs in rococo? Answer: Monkeys
Question: How many greats were in the title of the film? Answer: The great escape
Question: What does the phrase "pro publico bono" mean in Latin? Answer: For the public good
Question: What is the Latin name for a secret political envoy? Answer: Nuncio
Question: When do we celebrate the Polish Army Day? Answer: 23rd february
Question: What kind of texts are diarists? Answer: Journals
Question: In which century did Kepler formulate the three laws governing the movement of the planets? Answer: 17th
Question: In what century did Hans Christian Andersen create? Answer: 19th
Question: What was the name of the confectionery in Krakow where the Green Balloon cabaret operated in 1905-12? Answer: The green balloon
Question: Who is the director of the films "Funeral of a potato", "Saber from the Commander"? Answer: Sergei eisenstein
Question: What is the name of the index of the largest companies on the Warsaw Stock Exchange? Answer: WIG
Question: Did the German state join the League of Nations after World War I? Answer: No
Question: What were the names of the heroes of the 1939 film "Vagabonds"? Answer: The wanderers
Question: How old is the oldest teenager? Answer: 19
Question: What is the name of the founder and leader of the Rolling Stones band? Answer: Brian jones
Question: On which peninsula is the European part of Turkey located? Answer: Anatolia
Question: Was Händel a peer of Johann Sebastian Bach? Answer: No
Question: What in the cards is it called to give up further bidding? Answer: Pass
Question: Under which ruler did Gall Anonim write his chronicle? Answer: Theodoric the
Question: Is pertussis an infectious disease? Answer: Yes
Question: What names did the French actor Belmondo bear? Answer: Jean-Paul
Question: What is the name of a ceremonial introduction to a piece of legislation? Answer: Second reading
Question: What were the Soviet labor camps called? Answer: Gulag
Question: What is the Latin name for a store dealing in old books? Answer: Libraria
Question: Wladyslaw Baka and Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz served as president of which bank in different years? Answer: Bank polski
Question: What is the sum of the digits of the year of the Battle of Grunwald? Answer: 14
Question: What was the name of the first commander of the elite GROM assault unit? Answer: Colonel Alexander
Question: What was the name of Queen Elizabeth II's father? Answer: George vi
Question: What is the name of an aircraft designed to take off and land on water? Answer: Seaplane
Question: What is the name of the scene interjected into the action that disrupts the chronology? Answer: Flashback
Question: What is water called in its solid state? Answer: Ice
Question: In which country was Greta Garbo born? Answer: Sweden
Question: In which city can we visit the Namiestnikowski Palace and Ujazdowski Castle? Answer: Warsaw
Question: Can the area of a figure be expressed by a negative number? Answer: No
Question: How many times did Jesus fall during the Way of the Cross? Answer: Three
Question: Did Joan of Arc come from Orleans? Answer: No
Question: What was the name of Israel's king, Solomon's father? Answer: Saul
Question: What electric charge does a positron have? Answer: Positive
Question: In which country is the musical "Evita" set? Answer: Argentina
Question: Ildefrans are sheep, cows or horses? Answer: Sheep
Question: Benedykt Korczynski, Anselm Bohatyrovich - are these characters from which book? Answer: The man who was
Question: What is the name of the Australian bagger, whose favorite delicacy is eucalyptus? Answer: Koala
Question: Vistula Spit, Leba or Hel Spit - which one separates the Puck Bay from the open sea? Answer: Vistula sp
Question: How many horsemen can be seen in Alexander Gierymski's painting "Insurgent Patrol"? Answer: Four
Question: Who, according to the proverb, does not pour from the void? Answer: A fool
Question: In which city in Greater Poland did a student strike against the Germanization of school take place in 1902-03? Answer: Poznan
Question: What sports does Marcin Gortat play? Answer: Basketball
Question: What is the activity of combining quicklime with water called? Answer: Calcining
Question: Is Turandot a Chinese princess or a Tatra prince? Answer: Chinese
Question: For how many months of the year is the Little Bear visible over the Polish sky? Answer: Four
Question: In which city did Zbyszek Cybulski die? Answer: Warsaw
Question: In which city is the Tatra Museum named after Titus Chalubinsky located? Answer: Zakopane
Question: In which city is the action of the novel "The Doll" mainly set? Answer: London
Question: From which side does the breeze blow during the day: from the land or from the sea? Answer: From the sea
Question: What is the title of the first book of Pan Tadeusz? Answer: Pan Tadeusz
Question: What field of art does Wilhelm Sasnal practice? Answer: Painting
Question: What is the name of a city in Switzerland and a forage plant? Answer: Bern and Edelwe
Question: What pseudonym did Stanislaw Mackiewicz use? Answer: Stanislaw Lem
Question: What kind of love doesn't rust? Answer: True love
Question: Who is the author of Antigone? Answer: Sophocles
Question: What was the name of the title character of Adam Mickiewicz's poem "Pan Tadeusz"? Answer: Tadeusz
Question: A2, A3, A4 - which of these sheets of paper has the smallest dimensions? Answer: A2
Question: During the reign of which French ruler was the empire style created? Answer: Napoleon
Question: Are barracuda fish predatory or herbivorous? Answer: Predatory
Question: What is the name of actor Jan Nowicki's son, also an actor? Answer: Robert
Question: During which uprising did a unit of blacksmiths assist the regular army? Answer: The French Revolution
Question: To which country does Norfolk Island, located in the Pacific Ocean, belong? Answer: Australia
Question: In which light-related unit are the vast distances between stars measured? Answer: Light year
Question: What is the name of the movie that tells the story of the time of the conquest of the Wild West? Answer: The good, the
Question: Was the Polish 303 Squadron a bomber squadron or a fighter squadron? Answer: Fighter
Question: Do penguins live in Africa? Answer: No, they live
Question: What is the name of a coniferous tree that grows mainly in California and Oregon? Answer: Sequoia
Question: What is the name of the day of Carnival on which donuts are eaten? Answer: Shrove tues
Question: What fish did the fisherman in the novel "The Old Man and the Sea" catch? Answer: A marlin
Question: What was the name of Admiral Nelson's flagship at the Battle of Trafalgar? Answer: Victory
Question: Was Dr. Murek a doctor? Answer: Yes
Question: In what century did Edvard Munch paint the painting "The Scream"? Answer: 19th
Question: What is the name of the world's second deepest lake located in Africa? Answer: Lake baikal
Question: Was the Marquise de Pompadour a favorite of Louis XV or XVI? Answer: Louis xv
Question: Did the conventioneer make church bells? Answer: No
Question: Do sparrows build nests? Answer: Yes
Question: Which Russian czar was canonized by the Orthodox Church in 2002? Answer: Alexander ii
Question: In which years of the 19th century did the Congress of Vienna meet? Answer: 1814-15
Question: What did the abbreviation CK stand for in the name of Austria-Hungary? Answer: Cisleithania
Question: Podiebrady is a Czech, Slovak or Austrian spa? Answer: Czech
Question: How many terms did Margaret Thatcher serve as prime minister? Answer: Two
Question: Which planet in the solar system is called a red planet? Answer: Mars
Question: Who is the author of the book "King Matt I"? Answer: William thackeray
Question: Konstantinos Karamanlis and Kostis Stefanopulos were the presidents of which country? Answer: Greece
Question: Did the creator of the Marconi radiotelegraph receive a Nobel Prize? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the height of Snow Mountain above sea level? Answer: 6,684 metres
Question: What was the inscription on the gates of the German death camps? Answer: Arbeit macht
Question: Which family of lizards are masters of camouflage? Answer: Iguanidae
Question: Which color is the bicycle on the road sign marking the bike path? Answer: Green
Question: Which animal is the symbol of Rome? Answer: Lion
Question: Which army emerged victorious from the First Punic War? Answer: Carthage
Question: Is taffeta a silk or cotton fabric? Answer: Silk
Question: What was the name of the light cavalry founded by Jozef Lisowski in the early 17th century? Answer: The cossacks
Question: Is iridium a metal alloy or an element? Answer: Element
Question: To know what's going on with everyone is to keep a hand in...? Answer: The cookie jar
Question: How many electrodes does a transistor have? Answer: Three
Question: In which Warsaw park is the Palace on the Water located? Answer: Lazienki
Question: Which Polish actress founded the "Despite Everything" foundation? Answer: Joanna Kulig
Question: From which church is the bugle played on Polish radio? Answer: St. Michael's
Question: Is the chimpanzee a great ape? Answer: Yes
Question: How many concave angles can a quadrilateral have at most? Answer: 2
Question: In what year did Tadeusz Kosciuszko take the oath of office in Krakow's main square? Answer: 1794
Question: Whose staunch enemy was Cato the Elder? Answer: Julius Caesar
Question: What is the name of Mexican agave vodka? Answer: Tequila
Question: Against whom did Ladislaus Varnaise set out on his last expedition? Answer: The ottomans
Question: Alabaster is a white, fine-grained variety of which mineral? Answer: Gypsum
Question: Which planet were Galileo probes sent to inspect? Answer: Jupiter
Question: In which city was the peace that ended the Polish-Swedish war concluded in 1660? Answer: Warsaw
Question: Who won the Russo-Japanese War of 1904 and 1905? Answer: Japan
Question: In which country has a gold coin called a doubloon been minted since the 16th century? Answer: Spain
Question: What is the title of a Polish aviation magazine founded in 1930 and still in existence today? Answer: Lotnictwo
Question: Of the fourteen eight-thousanders, ten are in the Himalayas, and where are the rest? Answer: Karakoram
Question: In what month was Gretel supposed to get married? Answer: February
Question: Are proteins the building blocks of animal organisms, plant organisms or both? Answer: Both
Question: How many parts does a suit consist of? Answer: Four
Question: Who introduced the New Deal reform program in the U.S.? Answer: Franklin d. ro
Question: Of the three rivers: the Rhone, the Seine or the Loire - which is the longest? Answer: Loire
Question: Klezmer is a colloquial term for musician or itinerant actor? Answer: Yiddish
Question: Who designed the first steel bridge over the Vistula in Warsaw? Answer: John A. Ro
Question: Which bird, the symbol of knowledge, was also the symbol of Athena? Answer: Owl
Question: Who founded the congregation of the Missionary Sisters of Love? Answer: Mother teresa
Question: What was the name of a German POW camp for officers during World War II? Answer: Oflag
Question: What is the woodwine from "Pan Tadeusz": an undergarment, a plant or a musical instrument? Answer: Lute
Question: What is the process of changing the pitch of the voice in teenage boys called? Answer: Puberty
Question: By which sea is Finland located? Answer: Baltic sea
Question: Is chablis a white wine or a red wine? Answer: White
Question: In which country are the ruins of Machu Picchu located? Answer: Peru
Question: What is the name of the Polish rock band in which Artur Rojek was the vocalist? Answer: The hives
Question: What was the name of the actor playing the role of Neo in "The Matrix"? Answer: Keanu reeves
Question: Which number is bigger: a million million or a thousand billion? Answer: A million million
Question: Which female voice is lower: alto or contralto? Answer: Contralto
Question: In which city was the first stock exchange established in 1818? Answer: New york
Question: What is four raised to the cube? Answer: 64
Question: Which country is the author of the Moomins books from? Answer: Finland
Question: What is the name of the curve that is the graph of the quadratic function? Answer: Parabola
Question: What is the pope's term of office called? The word comes from Latin. Answer: Papacy
Question: At what age did Alfred Nobel die? Answer: 63
Question: Which river is Przemyśl located on? Answer: San
Question: In which century did the Second International establish May 1 as a labor holiday? Answer: 19th
Question: The miner Bulandra, the blacksmith Karlik, the warrior Zeflik - are these characters from the fairy tales of Gustav Morcinek or the Brothers Grimm? Answer: Brothers grimm
Question: What was the name of the author of the novel "Dead Souls"? Answer: Nikolai gogol
Question: On the anniversary of the liberation of which concentration camp is International Holocaust Remembrance Day? Answer: Auschwitz
Question: "Our merry apocalypse" is a selection of essays by a Polish philosopher. Which one? Answer: Zygmunt
Question: A doctor of which specialty treats heart disease? Answer: Cardiologist
Question: What is the French name for the body of a car? Answer: Chassis
Question: What is the title of Joanna and Krzysztof Krauze's film based on the life of Poland's first Roma poet? Answer: The Gypsy
Question: What is the name of the director of the films "Wall Street", "The Doors", "Born Killers"? Answer: Oliver stone
Question: Whose wedding appears in the title of Mozart's opera? Answer: Figaro
Question: How does a roof repair and roofing craftsman cover himself from German? Answer: Roofing felt
Question: What is the name of the department at the university that includes the study of the language and literature of Albion? Answer: English
Question: What is the name of the blue flowering weed found in grain? Answer: Flax
Question: Are herbicides insecticides or herbicides? Answer: Herbicides
Question: Was the act of surrender after the Warsaw Uprising signed in Warsaw? Answer: No, it was
Question: A migraine is severe and sudden pain in which part of the body? Answer: Head
Question: What is the name of the actress who played the role of Anna German in the TV series? Answer: Anna wing
Question: What is the name of Queen Elizabeth's great-grandson, the son of Prince William and Duchess Kate? Answer: George
Question: The queen snake is a species of which insect? Answer: Dragonfly
Question: Where did the idea of the Olympic Games come from? Answer: Greece
Question: Which work by Jan Kochanowski contains the words: "Ye who rule over common things"? Answer:
Question: What is the name of the basic SI unit of temperature? Answer: Kelvin
Question: Which weapon was used for the first time in the Battle of the Somme? Answer: Tank
Question: Has the position of shogun, military governor, been subject to succession since the 12th century? Answer: Yes
Question: Who is the creator of the Third Program charts? Answer: Paul oakenfold
Question: In Jan Brzechwa's poem "Entlichek, pentliczek" there was a basket on a table and an apple in it. Who lived in the apple? Answer: A mouse
Question: What is the name of the inventor of the lightning rod? Answer: Benjamin franklin
Question: How many years did the Jagiellonian dynasty reign in Poland: about 150, 180 or 250 years? Answer: 180
Question: How did Heracles put the Nemean lion to death? Answer: He strangled it
Question: Dysgraphia is a disorder of which skill? Answer: Writing
Question: In what year did Winston Churchill first become prime minister? Answer: 1940
Question: Is Volhynia located in Lithuania, Ukraine or Belarus? Answer: Ukraine
Question: What city is the capital of the Malopolska province? Answer: Krakow
Question: How many hectares is a square kilometer? Answer: 100
Question: Is there a world championship being held in cycling ball? Answer: No
Question: Which city was home to the Government in Exile until 1990? Answer: London
Question: One hectare - how many acres is that? Answer: 2.5
Question: Which country is Andrea Bocelli from? Answer: Italy
Question: Who was the creator of Helios' chariot, Ares' armor, Eros' arrows? Answer: Hephaestus
Question: Which country was Remarque, author of the novel "The Arc de Triomphe," from? Answer: Germany
Question: Were Mark Antony and Cleopatra married? Answer: Yes
Question: Which city is the capital of Colombia? Answer: Bogota
Question: What do we call a sudden, severe headache? Answer: A migraine
Question: Which EU country has the largest surface area? Answer: France
Question: What is the name of the oldest part of the Talmud? Answer: Mishna
Question: Please quote the first words of the British anthem in Polish? Answer: God save the queen
Question: Which Krakow cabaret was Piotr Skrzynecki associated with? Answer: The Blue Angel
Question: Which number is larger: the square root of 9 or the cube root of 27? Answer: The square root of
Question: What is the French term for an artist's first public appearance? Answer: Premiere
Question: In songs, what is the repeating part of the lyrics and melody after each stanza called? Answer: Refrain
Question: In which city does the route of the Stations of the Cross follow the Via Dolorosa? Answer: Jerusalem
Question: What was the name of Agamemnon's wife? Answer: Clytemnestra
Question: In which city is there a fountain with a peeing boy? Answer: Brussels
Question: A cyclist, a trumpeter and an astronaut all bear the same name - what name? Answer: Neil armstrong
Question: Who was Clara from Revenge in love with? Answer: Lord Byron
Question: Were FIAT cars manufactured in Poland before World War II? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the Greek name for the common act of grace? Answer: Eucharist
Question: The dark side of which celestial body did Pink Floyd include in its album? Answer: The moon
Question: What was the name of the writer and philosopher, author of the poem "Winnie the Fatalist and his master"? Answer: A. A
Question: Which saint helps you find lost items? Answer: St. jude
Question: Who sings the song "Eurydice dancing"? Answer: The greek singer
Question: During World War II, what were Polish newspapers published with the approval of the occupying forces called? Answer: The black press
Question: Is the British national anthem also the anthem of Australia? Answer: Yes
Question: In what century did French philosopher Denis Diderot live? Answer: 17th
Question: What is the name of the capital of Venezuela? Answer: Caracas
Question: What is the name of Canada's currency? Answer: Dollar
Question: What is the name of the former cattle harness and bondage? Answer: Chattel slavery
Question: In what century did St. Bernadette live? Answer: Nineteenth
Question: Is a serviette a type of cabinet or table? Answer: Table
Question: Is volleyball - acrobatic exercises on a galloping horse - a sport? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of potatoes cut into strips and fried in oil? Answer: French fries
Question: What feast takes place during the octave of Corpus Christi in Krakow? Answer: Procession of the
Question: In what province is Ruciane-Nida located? Answer: North Brabant
Question: What was the name of the main character of the novel "Wuthering Heights"? Answer: Heathcliff
Question: Did the May 3 Constitution introduce heredity of the throne? Answer: No
Question: Are polio and infantile paralysis the same disease? Answer: No
Question: Who was running Wokulski's store? Answer: Wokulski
Question: Which capital letter of the alphabet denotes Newton's constant of gravity? Answer: G
Question: A decade - how many years is that? Answer: 10
Question: In which province is Zamosc located? Answer: Poland
Question: Who is the leader and soloist of the band Wolves? Answer: Chris wolstenh
Question: Is drabant an old Polish dance? Answer: Yes
Question: Who in Greek mythology stole fire from the Olympian gods? Answer: Prometheus
Question: Promil - what part of the total? Answer: Profit
Question: Whose wife was Bona Sforza? Answer: Francesco Sforza
Question: How many times has the World Cup been held in France? Answer: Twice
Question: Fisz and Emade are contemporary music creators, the sons of which artist? Answer: David bowie
Question: Using the seeds of which plant can you identify the princess? Answer: Peach
Question: Which channel connects the Aegean Sea to the Ionian Sea? Answer: Corinth canal
Question: On which ocean is the Azores located? Answer: Atlantic ocean
Question: Who was Leszek the White to Konrad Mazowiecki? Answer: King of Poland
Question: Which Polish goalkeeper stopped England? Answer: Tomasz Kuszc
Question: 1246 is an even number? Answer: True
Question: What is the name of the Christmas mass? Answer: Nativity
Question: What is the name of the song of the gondoliers? Answer: La donna e mobile
Question: In which country in the Po Delta is the city of Ferrara located? Answer: Italy
Question: In which Swiss city did John Calvin spend the last 20 years of his life? Answer: Geneva
Question: In which century did the first breaking of the Diet by liberum veto occur? Answer: 13th
Question: Under what name did the events in France in 1871 go down in history? Answer: The commune
Question: How many weight categories exist in sumo? Answer: 15
Question: What element has the symbol B? Answer: Boron
Question: What is closer to the body than a dress according to the proverb? Answer: A pair of bre
Question: Who was Alice of Wonderland chasing when she fell into the burrow? Answer: A rabbit
Question: Does Mars have an atmosphere? Answer: Yes
Question: In which month did a mass protest of workers take place in Poznan in 1956? Answer: June
Question: Which city was the seat of the Austrian authorities in Galicia after the first partition of Poland? Answer: Lviv
Question: Which planet of the solar system shines with its own light? Answer: Venus
Question: What was Lot's wife turned into? Answer: A pillar of salt
Question: What term derived from Greek is called the Stone Age? Answer: Neolithic
Question: What was the name of the Italian painter Modigliani? Answer: Amedeo
Question: How many times is the volume of a cone smaller than the volume of a cylinder with the same base? Answer: Three
Question: What is the name of the filling for dumplings or pancakes? The word comes from the French language. Answer: Crème pâtiss
Question: Expand the acronym "CBŚ." Answer: (Czech
Question: With the leaves of which plant did Adam and Eve cover their intimate areas? Answer: Fig
Question: Which cyclist is the general director of the Tour de Pologne race? Answer: Michal kwiat
Question: Who played the title role in the Rambo film series? Answer: Sylvester stallone
Question: With which Greek deity was Liber, the Ancient Greek god of the harvest, identified? Answer: Bacchus
Question: In what century was Barcelona architect Antonio Gaudi born? Answer: 19th century
Question: Whose nephews were Dyzio, Hyzio and Zyzio? Answer: The brothers Grimm
Question: Which British writer introduced the concept of Big Brother into literature? Answer: George Orwell
Question: Which zodiac sign prevails in late December and early January? Answer: Capricorn
Question: What do we call the image formed after splitting white light into components of different lengths? Answer: Spectrum
Question: Until what year was the so-called Little Constitution of 1946 in effect? Answer: 1946
Question: In what age did Salvador Dali create? Answer: 1931
Question: How many colors does the flag of Ukraine consist of? Answer: Two
Question: A black flag with a skull and two tibias - who flies such a flag? Answer: Pirates
Question: Which country is Giorgio Armani from? Answer: Italy
Question: The leader of which band is Muniek Staszczyk? Answer: The cardigans
Question: Do methane, ethane, propane, butane belong to hydrocarbons? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the Tatra pass connecting Zawrat and Krzyżne? Answer: Rysy
Question: Calypso is the moon of which planet in the solar system? Answer: Neptune
Question: Which novella by Maria Konopnicka featured the Mostowiak family? Answer: The mostowiak
Question: Which of the Grabski brothers, Wladislaw or Stanislaw, was the Minister of Finance? Answer: Stanislaw
Question: In which lake district is Lake Sniardwy located? Answer: Snowdonia
Question: What is the Muslim name of God the Creator? Answer: Allah
Question: What else is mustard gas called? Answer: Yperite
Question: Which country occupies 1/8 of the Earth's land area and borders 14 countries on land? Answer: Russia
Question: What is the Italian name for an arch supported by two supports? Answer: Double arch
Question: Which country hosted the 2014 World Cup? Answer: Brazil
Question: Which country occupied British-owned Singapore in 1942? Answer: Japan
Question: What was the name of an 18th- and 19th-century Spanish painter depicting the horrors of war? Answer: Francisco goya
Question: What is the name of the serous membrane covering the abdominal organs? Answer: Peritoneum
Question: In which European city is its oldest part surrounded by the Aurelian Walls? Answer: Rome
Question: What is the name of an Indian war trophy in the form of skin stripped from a skull? Answer: The skull cup
Question: What is the Greek name for an exaggerated belief in one's own worth, a mania for greatness? Answer: Narcissism
Question: Galicianisms are borrowings from which language? Answer: Galician
Question: What does "Jack the Ripper" mean in English? Answer: Jack the Ripper
Question: From which language does the abbreviation LTD for limited liability company come? Answer: Latin
Question: In which language did Virgil write the Aeneid? Answer: Latin
Question: The protagonist of which Makushinsky novel is Ewa Tyszowska? Answer: The last of the
Question: According to Arthurian legends, what was the name of King Arthur's wife, Lancelot's beloved? Answer: Guinevere
Question: What is the name of the famous satirist Laskowik? Answer: Mark twain
Question: What was the name of the Roman philosopher, Nero's tutor? Answer: Seneca
Question: Who was the last president of Czechoslovakia? Answer: Vaclav havel
Question: What musical instrument does Bill Clinton play? Answer: Saxophone
Question: Do penguins have wings? Answer: No
Question: Is an enduro a car rally or a motorcycle rally? Answer: Car rally
Question: What was the name of a slender jug with vertical handles in ancient Greece? Answer: Kylix
Question: The Life of Which Man is the title of one of Nikolai Rej's works? Answer: Alexander Pushkin
Question: In which Italian city is there a statue of Marcus Aurelius? Answer: Rome
Question: In which Italian city is the so-called leaning tower, the bell tower of the local cathedral? Answer: Pisa
Question: What is the name of the hunchbacked jester, the hero of Verdi's opera? Answer: Rigoletto
Question: Do you bake or fry the fava beans? Answer: Fry
Question: With the history of which city is the legend of the Golden Duck associated? Answer: Hamelin
Question: What was the name of the bard of Apollo's oracle? Answer: Musaeus
Question: Which city were the blue streetcars that Maria Koterbska sang about? Answer: New york
Question: Which director's wife is actress Emmanuelle Seigner? Answer: Roman polanski
Question: What is the name of the billiards without a bow, as well as the collision of multiple cars? Answer: Snooker
Question: Which city was the main port of ancient Athens? Answer: Piraeus
Question: To whom did the Delphic oracle prophesy that he would kill his own father and marry his mother? Answer: Oedipus
Question: How many official languages are there in Belarus? Answer: 2
Question: Which goddess was born from the sea foam? Answer: Aphrodite
Question: What color is Winnie the Pooh's mug? Answer: Brown
Question: What do we call a celestial body orbiting a planet in an orbit? Answer: Satellite
Question: Is the person expressing himself colloquially using literary or colloquial language? Answer: Literary
Question: The Pod Buda group asked in a song not to move the capital to which city? Answer: Budapest
Question: In which coastal city is the Polish Film Festival held? Answer: Gdynia
Question: In chess, what is a move that causes a direct threat to the king called? Answer: Check
Question: Are spaniels hunting dogs? Answer: Yes
Question: On whom, according to the saying, is the cap gore? Answer: The devil
Question: Which rank is higher: colonel or commander? Answer: Colonel
Question: In which of Molière's comedies was a statue of a commander invited to the supper? Answer: The misanthrope
Question: What is the name of the outer layer of the brain hemispheres? Answer: Cortex
Question: Dawn, Morning Star - which celestial body do these names refer to? Answer: Venus
Question: What is the name of the F1 race track in Lombardy? Answer: Monza
Question: Who in the TV series "Alternatives 4" played the wife of a housewife? Answer: Jane harvey
Question: In which city is Hipolit Cegielski's factory located? Answer: Poznan
Question: What was the name of the Russian physiologist who introduced the term conditioned reflex? Answer: Ivan pavlov
Question: What used to be the name of the heated iron cartridge? Answer: Hot shot
Question: Does Mount Kosciuszko in Australia measure more than 3,000 meters high? Answer: No
Question: Which animals do ornithologists deal with? Answer: Birds
Question: What did Stefan Wiechecki refer to as a "barrel radio"? Answer: A radio with a
Question: Which religion is dominant in Romania? Answer: Romanian Orthodox
Question: What was the name of the king of Phrygia with donkey ears? Answer: Midas
Question: Which element has the symbol W? Answer: Tungsten
Question: How many National Parks do we have in Poland - less or more than 20? Answer: More than 20
Question: What is the name of the capital of the Świętokrzyskie province? Answer: Kielce
Question: Which strategic facility was to be captured by the heroes of the movie "Commandos of Navarona"? Answer: The naval base at
Question: What is the sum of the eyes on the six faces of the dice? Answer: 21
Question: In the 12th and 13th centuries, what was the name of the official in charge of a castle or stronghold and an adjacent district? Answer: Constable
Question: Where is the west wind coming from? Answer: The Atlantic
Question: Which day is Barbórka traditionally held? Answer: The first Sunday in
Question: Is the synagogue a place of prayer for Protestants, Catholics or Jews? Answer: Jews
Question: Was Bernard Shaw the winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature? Answer: Yes
Question: What are the names of the blue people from the children's evening show? Answer: The blue peter boys
Question: In which country did Queen Catherine of Medici reign? Answer: France
Question: On which river is Plock located? Answer: Vistula
Question: Is an aerostat a lighter or heavier-than-air device? Answer: Lighter
Question: In what Italian city is the Trevi fountain located? Answer: Rome
Question: Anna Jagiellonka completed after the death of Sigismund Augustus which investment: the bridge or the church? Answer: The church
Question: At samples of which metal is a woman's head found? Answer: Copper
Question: Cyprus gained its independence before or after World War II? Answer: 1960
Question: Are barberry fruits edible? Answer: Yes
Question: What nationality was the woman Jesus met at Jacob's well in the Gospel according to St. John? Answer: Samaritan
Question: Did Prince Joseph Poniatowski take part in the Battle of Waterloo? Answer: Yes
Question: What was the name of the queen of Egypt from the Ptolemaic dynasty who died in 30 BC? Answer: Cleopatra
Question: Are mating dogs a northern or southern sky constellation? Answer: Ursa Major
Question: What is the name of the title character of Daniel Defoe's novel, who spends many years alone on a desert island? Answer: Robinson Crusoe
Question: If I say tomorrow is Thursday, which day of the week is today? Answer: Wednesday
Question: Is paper a European or Asian invention? Answer: Asian
Question: What shape is the scar on Harry Potter's forehead? Answer: Lightning flash
Question: Nagorno-Karabakh is the largest Armenian enclave within which country? Answer: Azerbaijan
Question: The premiere of "Dziady" directed by Wyspianski took place in the 19th or 20th century? Answer: 19th
Question: Who was to say, "And yet it moves"? Answer: William shakespeare
Question: What is the name of the short allegorical story and the mathematical conic curve? Answer: The riddle of
Question: What is the official name of dandelion? Answer: Taraxacum
Question: Who, according to the proverb, does the Lord God guard? Answer: The innocent
Question: In the Teutonic state, what was the name of the administrator of a district consisting of one or more castles and an adjacent territory? Answer: Bailiff
Question: Into which sea does the Thames flow? Answer: North sea
Question: Are setters a breed of hunting dog? Answer: Yes
Question: Through which ocean does the Gulf Stream flow? Answer: Atlantic
Question: What do we call sailing against the wind in German? Answer: Windfahren
Question: In which legal act is the capital of Poland specified? Answer: Constitution
Question: What is the name of the object for measuring the length and frequency of an electromagnetic wave? Answer: Spectrometer
Question: Etna, Stromboli, Tambora - which volcano does not rise in Italy? Answer: Etna
Question: Are algae eaters fish or snails? Answer: Fish
Question: What is the name of the indigenous people of Papua New Guinea? Answer: Papuans
Question: To tell someone the whole truth - is to play what cards? Answer: The ace of sp
Question: Does the Rhône River flow through Switzerland? Answer: No
Question: Blackbirds are a breed of which animals? Answer: Birds
Question: What kind of utilitarian and artistic products did Ćmielów become famous for? Answer: Pottery
Question: What was the river that the kitten in Tuwim's poem dreamed of full of? Answer: Fish
Question: From which language does the term "surrealism" come? Answer: French
Question: Which director received three Oscars for best foreign language film? Answer: Milos Foreman
Question: Which well-known work of the Polish Enlightenment bears the subtitle "or the War of the Monks"? Answer: The monk and
Question: Please provide the exact date of the Soviet aggression against Poland during World War II. Answer: September 1st, 1939
Question: In which province is the Kampinos National Park located? Answer: Mazowieckie
Question: The virtuoso of which instrument is Tomasz Stanko? Answer: Violin
Question: In which European capital are the Champs Elysees located? Answer: Paris
Question: By what property are the elements in the Mendeleev system ranked? Answer: Atomic weight
Question: In what century was the Corinth Canal built? Answer: 19th
Question: In which city were the shell courts held? Answer: London
Question: What is the name of the news program broadcast on the first program every day at 7:30 pm? Answer: The news
Question: Which two basic styles are distinguished in wrestling? Answer: Greco-Roman
Question: In what year did Wanda Rutkiewicz become the first European woman to conquer Mount Everest? Answer: 1985
Question: In which country was Szczecin located in 1938? Answer: Poland
Question: On which continent does the raccoon rodent live? Answer: North America
Question: How many players does the water ball team have? Answer: Seven
Question: Are blackbirds and corsairs the same thing? Answer: No
Question: How many stars appear on the flag of Cuba? Answer: Five
Question: Who, according to the proverb, should not be called out of the woods? Answer: A fool
Question: Is the Augustow canal longer than 100 km? Answer: Yes
Question: In what mountains in Poland are there deposits of marble? Answer: Carpathians
Question: What is the name of the tree in the pine family that sheds its needles for the winter? Answer: Pine
Question: Who, besides Mozart and Beethoven, were among the three Viennese classics? Answer: Haydn and sch
Question: Do black swans exist? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the color of the table in the children's enumeration "Entwiny pentliczek"? Answer: Red
Question: What is the name of the four-time Olympic champion in walking? Answer: Robert heil
Question: To how many times a piece according to the proverb? Answer: Seven
Question: Which part of Pinocchio's face changed appearance when he lied? Answer: Nose
Question: Gibraltar is an overseas territory of which country? Answer: United Kingdom
Question: In which ocean is the island of Ceylon located? Answer: Indian ocean
Question: How many Polish cities have two subway lines? Answer: 3
Question: In what language did Horace and Virgil write? Answer: Latin
Question: Which Israeli king captured Jerusalem in the 10th century BC. Jerusalem? Answer: David
Question: Was the musket counted as a white weapon? Answer: No
Question: Who is the author of the painting "Hanging of the Sigismund Bell"? Answer: Peter paul rubens
Question: What is a significant increase in the value of securities on the stock market called? Answer: Bull market
Question: Did Julian Ursyn Niemcewicz take part in the Kosciuszko Uprising? Answer: Yes
Question: In German, what is good parenting called? Answer: Guter eltern
Question: Which country does Corsica belong to? Answer: France
Question: What besides the head is a school excuse? Answer: A leg
Question: In which city is the Hybrid student club headquartered? Answer: London
Question: What is the name of the body of small aquatic organisms floating passively in the depths of the oceans and seas? Answer: Plankton
Question: On top of which mountain does Cordian deliver his monologue? Answer: The mountain
Question: "Battleship Potemkin" is a silent or sound film? Answer: Silent
Question: What current country was once called the Union of South Africa? Answer: South Africa
Question: Which pedal in a piano is used to extend the sounds? Answer: Damper
Question: What is the Latin name for the right to break off the Diet by a single deputy? Answer: Veto
Question: What was the name of the belt of fortifications built after World War I in northeastern France? Answer: The Siegfried
Question: A formicarium is a container for observing which animals? Answer: Ants
Question: In what year was the liberum veto abolished? Answer: 1782
Question: How many cubic centimeters are contained in a cubic meter? Answer: One million
Question: What is the name of the peninsula separating the Gulf of Mexico from the Caribbean Sea? Answer: Yucatan
Question: What language is spoken in Mexico? Answer: Spanish
Question: What is the name of the city that, according to legend, was supposed to be founded by Wars and Sawa? Answer: Warsaw
Question: How many years has Prohibition been in effect in the U.S.? Answer: 16 years
Question: How many seeds does the date palm fruit have? Answer: Three
Question: Is the game of sudoku a Japanese invention? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of the oldest thermoplastic plastic from which photographic film is made? Answer: Celluloid
Question: What is the name of a hand tool for cutting grass and grain? Answer: Grass shear
Question: The movie "Revenge of the Sith" is about the Knights of the Round Table or the Jedi knights? Answer: The Jedi kn
Question: What is the name of the last letter of the Greek alphabet? Answer: Omega
Question: Do frogs belong to the vertebrates? Answer: Yes
Question: How many chambers does the Russian parliament consist of? Answer: 2
Question: What was the temporalik used for? Answer: To measure time
Question: Which singer launched the hit songs "Poker face", "Paparazzi"? Answer: Lady gaga
Question: Who is the author of the political comedy titled. "Return of the MP?" Answer: Martin bell
Question: A wreath made from the leaves of which bush contains a scout cross? Answer: Bay
Question: In what year did the Czech monk Gregory Mendel live? Answer: 1822 - 1884
Question: Who granted the privilege of Kosice to the nobility in the 14th century? Answer: King Charles iv
Question: The court painter of which English king was Hans Holbein son who lived at the turn of the 15th century? Answer: Henry viii
Question: What is the name of the titular police lieutenant played by Telly Savalas? Answer: Kojak
Question: Is Genesis the Book of Genesis or the Book of Exodus? Answer: Genesis
Question: Which vegetable is the primary ingredient in burrito stuffing? Answer: Corn
Question: Which Warsaw castle is associated with the legend of the golden duck? Answer: Zamek Kró
Question: What is the name of the tune played every hour from the tower of St. Mary's Church? Answer: Westminster chimes
Question: In what meter are waltzes composed? Answer: 2/4
Question: Was El Greco of Greek descent? Answer: Yes
Question: What was the name of the Egyptologist who found Tutankhamun's tomb? Answer: Howard Carter
Question: Which modern European country is ruled by King Harald V? Answer: Norway
Question: What is the name of the fabric derived from the capital of Syria? Answer: Damask
Question: With which mountains are the stories of Liczyrzepa associated? Answer: Carpathians
Question: Who in the scout song tells the ancient story? Answer: The scout
Question: Is France's Libération a daily or a weekly? Answer: Daily
Question: Which American city is located in the District of Columbia? Answer: Washington dc
Question: The protagonist of which novel by Witold Gombrowicz is Professor Pimko? Answer: Trans-Atlantyk
Question: In what century was the first Great Pardubice held? Answer: 19th
Question: Which country does Hawaii belong to? Answer: Usa
Question: What is the name of the beheading machine? Answer: Guillotine
Question: Cyclamen is Polish for which flower? Answer: Cyclamen
Question: What do we call a fashion magazine in French? Answer: Une revue de mode
Question: What is the title of Poland's oldest women's magazine? Answer: Glamour
Question: For what reason are state flags lowered to half mast? Answer: In memory of a
Question: As water freezes, does it increase or decrease in volume? Answer: Decrease
Question: Which Queen of Scotland was beheaded in 1587 on the orders of Elizabeth I? Answer: Mary queen of sc
Question: How did Jan Hus die? Answer: Burned at the
Question: In which ocean is the island of Cuba located? Answer: Caribbean
Question: What is the developmental form of insects called between the larva and the adult form? Answer: Pupa
Question: What currency is used in India? Answer: Rupee
Question: Is there a difference between a stanza and a stanza? Answer: Yes
Question: In Roman mythology, what was the name of the god of wine, equivalent to the Greek Dionysus? Answer: Bacchus
Question: Are Cerberus and Argos the same character? Answer: No
Question: Did Italy declare war on the USSR? Answer: No
Question: Which ruler in 44 BC was stabbed in the Roman Senate? Answer: Julius Caesar
Question: What is the name of the basic aromatic hydrocarbon with the formula C6H6? Answer: Benzene
Question: What is the name of the rhomboid-shaped noodles made from eggs, flour and potatoes? Answer: Gnocchi
Question: What church degree did Wincenty Kadlubek have? Answer: Archbishop
Question: Does the EU support social integration ventures? Answer: Yes
Question: Which weapon should be buried ending the dispute? Answer: Sword
Question: Which river flows into the Vistula River in Bydgoszcz? Answer: Warta
Question: In what year, called the Year of Africa, did 17 African countries gain independence? Answer: 1960
Question: What was the name of the German doctor who discovered the tubercle bacillus? Answer: Robert koch
Question: Which actress played the lead role in the movie "Farewell to Africa"? Answer: Ava gardner
Question: According to the proverb, who is not as scary as they paint him? Answer: A baby
Question: Where did the selfie stand in Brzechwa's poem? Answer: In the garden
Question: Does boxwood shed its leaves for the winter? Answer: No
Question: Is the title of marquis higher than that of count? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the actor playing the lead role in the movie "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest"? Answer: Jack nichol
Question: Which zodiac sign is an arachnid? Answer: Scorpio
Question: Does the Baltic Sea have a connection to the Black Sea? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of Europe's second longest river after the Volga? Answer: The Danube
Question: What material was covered with the cylinder on which the sound was first recorded? Answer: Wood
Question: Who was the author of the pre-war advertising slogan "sugar solidifies"? Answer: George orwell
Question: From which continent do the oldest known stone tools come? Answer: Africa
Question: Which U.S. state is home to the Kennedy Space Research Center? Answer: Florida
Question: Decipher the acronym GOPR. Answer: Government office for
Question: In which Polish city does Antalowka hill rise? Answer: Krakow
Question: Which novel by Victor Hugo features the Parisian streetwalker Gavroche? Answer: Les miserables
Question: In which century was the concept of war crimes introduced into the law and practice of war? Answer: 20th
Question: Who in Greek mythology was the goddess of law and justice? Answer: Themis
Question: On which continent is the Baribal bear found? Answer: North america
Question: What is the tenth of a percent called? Answer: Point
Question: Is the macaw a protected bird in Poland? Answer: No
Question: Does light in a vacuum propagate at the same speed as in air? Answer: No
Question: The baby shrew is a species of which flying mammal? Answer: Bat
Question: Is there rice in the Japanese dish sushi? Answer: Yes
Question: What color are the glasses of an optimist? Answer: Green
Question: What is the abbreviation for France's high-speed railroads? Answer: TGV
Question: What did the odd duck turn into at the end of Jan Brzechwa's fairy tale? Answer: A swan
Question: What is the name of the smallest church bell? Answer: Angelus
Question: What was the name of the third US president? Answer: Thomas jefferson
Question: What is the Greek word for dislike of foreigners? Answer: Xenophobia
Question: What is the name of the largest bell in the world? Answer: Big Ben
Question: What do we call in Latin the period after law school that prepares people for the work of a judge, lawyer? Answer: Jurisprudence
Question: Who was the king of Poland on May 3, 1791? Answer: Stanislaw August
Question: What is the name of the supreme legislative body provided for by the May 3 Constitution? Answer: National Assembly
Question: Who is the author of the poem that begins with the verse: "There was a grandfather and a grandmother"? Answer: Robert louis ste
Question: The base of which navigational instrument on a ship is a cabinet called a naktuz? Answer: Compass
Question: On which river is Paris located? Answer: Seine
Question: In which city does Pole Mokotowskie extend? Answer: Warsaw
Question: In which European capital was the European Union reform treaty signed in December 2007? Answer: Lisbon
Question: What was the name of the ship whose commander was Neil Armstrong? Answer: Apollo 11
Question: Birbant is otherwise a hulk or a miser? Answer: A miser
Question: Who wrote the book "Conversations with the Executioner"? Answer: Norman mailer
Question: Which country owns the Costa Brava coast? Answer: Spain
Question: In which city is Tygodnik Powszechny published? Answer: Warsaw
Question: What is the name of the author of the novel "Wuthering Heights"? Answer: Emily bronte
Question: The symbol of which party in the U.S. is the donkey? Answer: Democratic
Question: The protagonists of which novel by Jaroslaw Iwaszkiewicz were Jola and Julcia? Answer: The world of the
Question: Which character in Fredro's "Revenge" says: "heaven's will be done"? Answer: The Revenge
Question: Laminate is a single or multilayer plastic? Answer: Plastic
Question: What word was the solution to the Sphinx's riddle spoken by Oedipus? Answer: Man
Question: Vine snails are protected in Poland, and they can only be harvested in one month - which month? Answer: May
Question: What letter in physics is denoted by the so-called Planck's constant? Answer: H
Question: Who commanded the 10th Motorized Brigade in the September campaign? Answer: Omar bradley
Question: Which Polish writer was the lighthouse at Cape Rozewie named after? Answer: Joseph conrad
Question: Which is bigger: a liter or one cubic decimeter? Answer: A liter
Question: Which sport do Mariusz Fyrstenberg and Marcin Matkowski practice? Answer: Wrestling
Question: How many days is August? Answer: 31
Question: Does the Oedipus complex occur in boys or girls? Answer: Boys
Question: What is the name of the mezzanine, the separated upper part of a high room? Answer: Balcony
Question: What denomination banknote features King Sigismund the Old? Answer: 100 zloty
Question: What is the occurrence of the same element in different forms with different physical properties called? Answer: Allotropy
Question: The co-founder of which literary group was Julian Tuwim? Answer: The Warsaw group
Question: Au is the symbol for which element? Answer: Gold
Question: What flying out with a sparrow returns with an ox? Answer: An eagle
Question: The sisters Hanna and Jadwiga are the heroines of which opera by Stanislaw Moniuszko? Answer: The king's daughter
Question: What is the name of the mansion near Paris, the construction of which was started by Louis XIII? Answer: Chateau de
Question: On which island did Napoleon Bonaparte die? Answer: St Helena
Question: Are the Carpathian Mountains folded, logged or volcanic? Answer: Folded
Question: What does the Latin secundo mean? Answer: Second
Question: What is the name of the constellation Aquarius in Polish? Answer: Księż
Question: What in English do we call a sharpshooter? Answer: A marksman
Question: What do we colloquially call a person who arbitrarily occupies some apartment? Answer: Squatter
Question: Is it possible to cross from Europe to Asia via a bridge over the Bosphorus Strait? Answer: Yes
Question: In which century did the Romans finally destroy Carthage? Answer: 3rd
Question: What was the name of Antek's wife from the novel "Peasants"? Answer: Antek
Question: What letter did the first Ford model bear? Answer: A
Question: In which of Wyspianski's dramas does the Bohemian appear? Answer: The bartered bride
Question: From which language is the word "film" derived? Answer: French
Question: What is the acronym for the Federal Bureau of Investigation in the United States? Answer: F b i
Question: How many parts does a sari consist of? Answer: Four
Question: Can women be priests in the Anglican Church? Answer: Yes
Question: In what year did the Kosciuszko Uprising break out? Answer: 1794
Question: What high Tibetan official resides in the Potala Palace? Answer: The Dalai Lama
Question: To whom was Chopin's F minor concerto dedicated? Answer: Countess d'Ago
Question: What is calcium called in Latin? Answer: Calx
Question: Woodcarving is the art of carving in which material? Answer: Wood
Question: In what year did Kosciuszko issue the Polaniecki Uniwersal? Answer: 1794
Question: What was the name of the legendary land of gold in South America sought by the Spanish conquistadors? Answer: El dorado
Question: Did Stanislaw Moniuszko compose cantatas? Answer: Yes
Question: Which country has official Italian and Latin languages? Answer: Vatican City
Question: What is the Greek name for a panicky fear of the dark? Answer: Nyctophobia
Question: What does the word insurrection mean? Answer: Rebellion
Question: How did Anna Karenina, the heroine of Leo Tolstoy's novel, die? Answer: She threw herself under
Question: Is Ceylon the name of the country? Answer: No
Question: Lutz, Axel, Salchow - these are terms associated with which sport? Answer: Figure skating
Question: What was the name of the prince of Transylvania who became king of Poland? Answer: Stephen
Question: What were the priestesses guarding the sacred fire called? Answer: Vestal virgins
Question: In what century did the Grand Vizier Kara Mustafa live? Answer: 15th
Question: The title of which drama according to superstition should not be pronounced in the theater? Answer: Macbeth
Question: At the foot of which mountains lies the Chocholowska Valley? Answer: Tatras
Question: What are the characteristics of the so-called white line? Answer: A line of white
Question: In which country is Bern located? Answer: Switzerland
Question: The apostolic nuncio is the equivalent of which government official? Answer: Ambassador
Question: Which ocean pours over Africa from the east? Answer: Indian ocean
Question: What does "gloria victis" mean in Latin? Answer: Glory to the van
Question: In what century was Maxwell's "Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism" published? Answer: 19th century
Question: Who was the Greek equivalent of the Roman Diana? Answer: Artemis
Question: In which city in Belgium is there a diamond trading center? Answer: Antwerp
Question: Which war did the 1921 Treaty of Riga end? Answer: The war of independence
Question: Which April Fool's Day did April Fool's Day fall on this year? Answer: April 1st
Question: Norma Jeane Baker is the real name of which actress? Answer: Marilyn monroe
Question: What do we call, in Latin, the apprenticeship of people after law school preparing for the profession of judge, prosecutor? Answer: Advocatus
Question: What is the name of the lower house of the French parliament? Answer: National assembly
Question: What is the official language in Egypt? Answer: Arabic
Question: 1/5 - how many percent is that? Answer: 20%
Question: What is the name of Ireland's capital city? Answer: Dublin
Question: What is the name of the Hutsul wind instrument in the form of a straight pipe? Answer: Hutsulsh
Question: How many beams does a private have on his uniform? Answer: One
Question: What, in German, is the name of a hunting break-action weapon with three barrels? Answer: Dreibündel
Question: Which word in the sentence "this house is tall" is an adjective? Answer: Tall
Question: Who took over the assets of the League of Nations, which was dissolved in 1946? Answer: United nations
Question: Which Beatle recorded the song "Set my mind on you"? Answer: Paul mccartney
Question: Which objects appear in Salvador Dali's painting "Persistence of Memory"? Answer: Clocks and watch
Question: What was the nickname of the robber played by Witold Pyrkosz in Janosik? Answer: The black eagle
Question: Does the Great Barrier Reef stretch along the western or northeastern coast of Australia? Answer: Western
Question: What vehicles can be driven with a category A driver's license? Answer: Motorcycles
Question: What is the title of the ballad that begins with the words: "Listen ninny, she does not listen"? Answer: The ballad of
Question: What is the singular complement of the noun museum? Answer: Museum
Question: Is there a double bemoan in the musical notation? Answer: No
Question: Finish the saying: "There is no smoke without..."? Answer: Fire
Question: What color is the gemstone azurite? Answer: Blue
Question: What element has the symbol Ti? Answer: Titanium
Question: The agent of which agency was played by Robert Redford in the movie "Three Days of the Condor"? Answer: CIA
Question: Which garment size is bigger - S or M? Answer: S
Question: What was the name of the highest military rank in Lithuania and the Crown? Answer: Marshal
Question: What is an iron-carbon alloy with up to 2% carbon content called? Answer: Steel
Question: What is the common name for calcium carbide, used to produce acetylene? Answer: Carbide
Question: The SP mark indicates the aircraft's affiliation with which country? Answer: South Africa
Question: What is the name of the oval plate on which the painter mixes the paints while painting? Answer: Palette
Question: What was the name of an Old Polish men's garment, a long dress worn under the kontusz? Answer: Kossak
Question: Who in John Brzechwa's poem is sanctimoniously convinced that "the ground is good education"? Answer: The farmer
Question: From which city does the Czerniakowska Band originate? Answer: Warsaw
Question: In what year did Reymont receive the Nobel Prize? Answer: 1907
Question: What was the name of Mieszko I's son, who took over from his father? Answer: Boleslaw
Question: How many chambers does an amphibian heart have? Answer: Two
Question: What is the name of the largest right-bank tributary of the Warta River, which flows through Lake Goplo? Answer: The river Warta
Question: The mother saved Moses by putting him in a basket and letting him go on which river? Answer: River Nile
Question: Where, according to the saying, should words not be thrown? Answer: In the wind
Question: How many seconds is an hour? Answer: 3600
Question: What is the name of a teacher, master, guide in Hinduism? Answer: Guru
Question: Into which river did Wanda throw herself, which did not want a German? Answer: Rhine
Question: Toward which city do Muslims turn during prayer? Answer: Mecca
Question: Which country was Maurice Chevalier from? Answer: France
Question: Hebrew name meaning "she who gives life"? Answer: Rachel
Question: To which Polish city does the German name Breslau refer? Answer: Wroclaw
Question: What color is the most common ladybug in Poland? Answer: Red
Question: What did Madej, the hero of the folk tale, do for a living? Answer: He was a black
Question: Please name one of the world's tallest hydroelectric dams on the Colorado River, near Las Vegas. Answer: Hoover dam
Question: Courteous style is tact and courtesy or malice? Answer: Malice
Question: Which uprising was started by the so-called "belvedere"? Answer: The russian revolution
Question: The eagle in the Polish emblem has its head turned to its right or left? Answer: Right
Question: In what field of art does a prima ballerina perform? Answer: Ballet
Question: What is the name of the American awards called the television Oscars? Answer: Emmys
Question: In what century was the Queen Sophia Bible published? Answer: 17th century
Question: Who is the author of the novel "Mr. Grant's Children"? Answer: Elizabeth gaskell
Question: In which lake district is the Borecka Forest located? Answer: The polish lake
Question: In which language did Jerzy Kosinski write? Answer: Polish
Question: Whose name is the PTTK shelter at Morskie Oko named after? Answer: Tadeusz Kos
Question: What is the name of the conductor's baton? Answer: Baton
Question: What is the name of the conductor's baton? Answer: Baton
Question: Zenit, Dynamo, Spartak are the football teams of which European league? Answer: Russia
Question: Who persecuted the innocent Susanna in the Old Testament? Answer: The elders
Question: What is the name of the Polish actress, wife of Stanislaw Dygat? Answer: Zofia
Question: What was the nickname of General Emil Fieldorf? Answer: The iron general
Question: Which Warsaw district has the same name as one of the European capitals? Answer: Leopoldstadt
Question: In what century did the Pugachev uprising take place in Russia? Answer: 18th
Question: What is the final period of the Stone Age called? Answer: The New Stone Age
Question: Is Robert Zimmermann the real name of Sting or Bob Dylan? Answer: Bob Dylan
Question: In what language is the Vulgate written? Answer: Latin
Question: Which endocrine gland secretes melatonin? Answer: Pineal
Question: Who is the author of the ballad "Świtezianka"? Answer: Szymanowski
Question: Who played the role of a working woman in the TV series "Forty Years Old"? Answer: Joan collins
Question: What was the profession of Koszałek-Opałek, one of the dwarfs in the fairy tale "O dwarfs and orphan girl Marysia"? Answer: Miner
Question: What will be collected when we put together grain to grain? Answer: A heap
Question: In what century did Armenian composer Aram Khachaturian create? Answer: 20th
Question: Is stevia a sweet or salty tasting plant? Answer: Sweet
Question: Please provide the names of the main couple around which the plot of "The Deluge" revolves? Answer: Noah and his family
Question: From which country's cuisine did sushi originate? Answer: Japan
Question: Jelitkowo and Brzeźno are neighborhoods of which Polish city? Answer: Warsaw
Question: What was the name of the author of the phrase "To your health"? Answer: (francis)
Question: What is the complement of the word cocoa? Answer: Coffee
Question: What is the name of the Jewish tombstone? Answer: Sepulchre
Question: What sport did Steffi Graff play? Answer: Tennis
Question: What is the name of an ancient hunting weapon with a long spar, now used as equipment in athletics? Answer: Javelin
Question: On the territory of which countries extends the Hindu Kush? Answer: Afghanistan, pakistan and
Question: Which ocean is Kenya located on? Answer: Indian ocean
Question: From what continent do guppy fish originate? Answer: Africa
Question: Under which king of France is The Three Musketeers set? Answer: Louis xiv
Question: Sasha, Flea, Anita - these are the characters in which play by Janusz Glowacki? Answer: The last days of
Question: What, in French, is the name of the prime minister's program speech? Answer: Questions au gouvernement
Question: Which bird "thought about Sunday, and on Saturday his head was cut off"? Answer: Blackbird
Question: What was the name of the instructor at the Warsaw Officer Cadet School, the leader of the conspiracy that led to the outbreak of the November Uprising? Answer: Tadeusz ko
Question: Was Petronius from Quo Vadis a historical figure? Answer: No
Question: Has Daniel Olbrychski starred in all the film adaptations of Jerzy Hoffman's Trilogy? Answer: No
Question: Which day is longer: the stellar day or the average solar day? Answer: The stellar day
Question: In what century did Wit Stwosz carve the Marian altar? Answer: 15th
Question: What is the name of the division of the nucleus, in which there is no change in the number of chromosomes? Answer: Interphase
Question: What is the name of the country through which Asia's longest river, the Yangtze, flows? Answer: China
Question: How many popes were named Urban? Answer: 3
Question: What is the name of the presider at prayer in the mosque? Answer: Imam
Question: From which drama is the quote: "The peasant is power and basta?" Answer: The life of pi
Question: What unit in ancient Rome was divided into 12 ounces? Answer: As
Question: In which country did the July Revolution, the so-called "three days of glory," take place in 1830? Answer: France
Question: What was the name of President Narutowicz's assassin? Answer: Stanislaw Michal
Question: Did St. Peter come from Galilee or Jordan? Answer: Galilee
Question: The letter H is the abbreviation for which country in international traffic? Answer: Hungary
Question: What is the name of a river valley with a narrow bottom and steep, rocky slopes? Answer: Ravine
Question: What literary period is Eugene Onegin from? Answer: Romanticism
Question: In which city does the Forest Opera House, the site of festivals, stand? Answer: Edinburgh
Question: What is the French name for a couch shaped like an elongated armchair on which one can rest in a semi-reclining position? Answer: Chaise longue
Question: Alexander Walewski's mother was Maria, and who was the father? Answer: Napoleon iii
Question: Who died being stabbed in the heel by Paris with an arrow? Answer: Achilles
Question: During which war is the action of the novel Colombians set? Answer: World war i
Question: Did the Big Three at Potsdam perform in the same lineup as at Yalta? Answer: No
Question: Belle époque is the period before or after World War I? Answer: Before
Question: Is a yurt a tent of nomadic peoples of Asia or Indians? Answer: Asians
Question: Who is entitled to the courtesy title of magnificence? Answer: The Queen
Question: What do we call our 50th wedding anniversary otherwise? Answer: Diamond
Question: The image of which Polish king appears on the 500 zloty banknote? Answer: Jan III Sobies
Question: Did children participate in the crusades? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the Latin name for a list and correction of errors, spotted after printing? Answer: Errata
Question: In what century did the art déco art direction take place? Answer: Twentieth (20
Question: In which city was Jan Kazimierz University located before the war? Answer: Krakow
Question: What is the name of the missed shot, as well as the prison? Answer: The green mile
Question: How much is 45 - 15? Answer: 30
Question: How many years is the term of office of the Chairman of the Swiss Federation Council? Answer: Four
Question: Do chimpanzees and gorillas have a tail? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the current name of the ancient city of Byzantium? Answer: Istanbul
Question: What is the name of the Polish director, Jadwiga Baranska's husband? Answer: Andrzej Wajda
Question: In which city did Juliusz Kossak live and die? Answer: Krakow
Question: Are Pippin, Sam and Merry hobbits or elves? Answer: Hobbits
Question: From which dynasty did Osman I, Suleiman the Magnificent come? Answer: Ottoman
Question: The young farm animal and the trailing candy are...? Answer: Life savers
Question: What year was the 150th anniversary of the January Uprising? Answer: 1848
Question: Who should be listened to according to the Roman saying "audiatur et altera pars"? Answer: The other side
Question: What was Gervase's rapier called? Answer: The sword of the
Question: Is Chad carbon monoxide or carbon dioxide? Answer: Carbon dioxide
Question: Which continent is closest for a resident of Madagascar? Answer: Africa
Question: Which animals in the novel "Dracula" are called children of the night? Answer: Vampires
Question: What was the name of the famous queen of Babylon, known for her hanging gardens? Answer: Semiramis
Question: In which city did Madame Tussaud establish a wax figure gallery? Answer: London
Question: What colors appear on the flag of Greece? Answer: Blue and white
Question: What is the name of the mountain range that lies on the border between France and Spain? Answer: Pyrenees
Question: Who wrote the novel "On the Niemen"? Answer: Joseph conrad
Question: A cavalry rank is equivalent to what rank in the infantry? Answer: Lance corporal
Question: From which country does saree mustard originate? Answer: India
Question: What do miners call a worker's shift in a mine? Answer: Shift
Question: What is the name of a light rocket dropped from an airplane on a parachute to illuminate a landing or firing point? Answer: A flare
Question: Whose skull is Hamlet holding in his monologue? Answer: Yorick
Question: HDD stands for a type of processor or computer hard drive? Answer: Hard disk drive
Question: What two objects does the Warsaw Mermaid hold in her hands? Answer: A sword and a
Question: Is a mikveh a type of headgear worn by Jews? Answer: No
Question: What does the term "vivo" mean in music? Answer: Fast
Question: What is the name of the craftsman who casts the bells? Answer: Founder
Question: The army of which country suffered defeat at Cannae in 216 BC? Answer: Carthage
Question: What was the name of the Grand Master at Grunwald? Answer: Jan zaslaw
Question: How many right angles can a triangle have? Answer: 3
Question: What is the name of the largest living contemporary representative of the cat family? Answer: Tiger
Question: Is the Statue of Liberty more than 100 years old? Answer: Yes
Question: What was the nickname of Grey Regiments soldier Tadeusz Zawadzki? Answer: Grey Wolf
Question: How many musicians does an octet consist of? Answer: 8
Question: Is a dielectric a material that conducts electricity well? Answer: No
Question: Are there lakes in Antarctica? Answer: Yes
Question: How many pieces does each player have in hexagonal chess? Answer: 12
Question: What was the name of the director of the films "Teddy Bear" and "Wife for an Australian"? Answer: Peter weir
Question: What is the name of the field of medicine that deals with the diagnosis and treatment of allergies? Answer: Allergology
Question: In which city is the Bollywood film studio located? Answer: Mumbai
Question: Kurza Stopka is the east wing of which Polish castle? Answer: Wawel
Question: Did Kornel Makuszyński bring to life Koziołek Matołek before or after World War II? Answer: Before
Question: Who is the author of the crime novel "Mousetrap"? Answer: Agatha christie
Question: What is the name of the thriller film genre in Polish? Answer: Kryzys
Question: What does the protagonist of Franz Kafka's book "The Transformation" turn into? Answer: A bug
Question: In which ancient state did a provincial administrator carry the title of satrap? Answer: Persia
Question: What is the name of the section of Christian writing that includes the lives of saints and legends about them? The name comes from the Greek. Answer: Apocrypha
Question: Who played the lead role in the movie "Breakfast at Tiffany's"? Answer: Audrey hepburn
Question: In which mountains does the Yeti allegedly live? Answer: Himalayas
Question: Was Mieszko II the younger brother of Mieszko I? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the American actress, Warren Beatty's sister? Answer: Shirley maclaine
Question: Are polio and infantile paralysis the same disease? Answer: No
Question: What does "verbum nobile" mean? Answer: A noble word
Question: Did Shakespeare also create non-theatrical works? Answer: Yes
Question: In what country is the Order of the Elephant awarded? Answer: Denmark
Question: Which Russian city is the largest? Answer: Moscow
Question: Who was the father of Helen of Troy? Answer: Zeus
Question: What was Deyna's name? Answer: Deyna
Question: Which letter in the Morse alphabet is indicated by the three dots? Answer: I
Question: Which country does Lviv belong to? Answer: Ukraine
Question: Who was the father of Queen Elizabeth I of England? Answer: Henry viii
Question: According to Hippocrates' character classification, a sanguinarian is a calm or lively person? Answer: Calm
Question: Please complete the proverb: "He who likes himself is..."? Answer: A fool
Question: With which country did Poland wage a war that ended with the Peace of Bautzen between 1002 and 1018? Answer: Czech republic
Question: What does the Latin "vice versa" mean? Answer: The opposite
Question: In which Polish city is the Temple of Divine Providence located? Answer: Warsaw
Question: Please provide the names of Maradona. Answer: Diego maradona
Question: Was the judge in Pan Tadeusz a relative of the Soplice family or the Horeszko family? Answer: The Soplice family
Question: Which Spanish-speaking city does the state have the most population? Answer: Mexico city
Question: How many stars are on the EU flag? Answer: 12
Question: Who in the Anglican Church appoints bishops and archbishops? Answer: The monarch
Question: How many trips around the world did James Cook make? Answer: Three
Question: What sports game has the same name as the photosensitive membrane in the eye? Answer: Tennis
Question: What is the name of the rodent and the control device for the computer? Answer: Mouse
Question: How many battles at Chocim did the Poles fight against the Turks? Answer: 3
Question: How many times have the IOs been held in Japan? Answer: 2
Question: What is the name of the science that deals with the language, culture and history of the Czech Republic? Answer: Czechology
Question: What part of the garment does "rubashka" mean in Russian? Answer: Sleeve
Question: The king of which city was Egeus? Answer: Athens
Question: Which university in the U.S. is the oldest? Answer: Harvard
Question: In which country is the city of Acapulco located? Answer: Mexico
Question: What inscription did Staś Tarkowski carve on the rock of Kilimanjaro? Answer: Staś Tark
Question: What was the name of Queen Hedwig's father? Answer: King Sigismund
Question: Something conquered with effort we say it's a hard piece...? Answer: To get
Question: Did Hannibal live before Christ or after Christ? Answer: Before Christ
Question: In what year was the 1st Infantry Division named after Tadeusz Kosciuszko established? Answer: 1918
Question: In 1943, a conference of Allied leaders was held in Casablanca. Was Stalin there? Answer: No
Question: What does the proverb say harms beauty? Answer: Age
Question: What is the English name for awarding a victory to a team or player without a fight? Answer: Tie
Question: What role did Janusz Gajos play in the series "Four Armored and a Dog"? Answer: The dog
Question: What is the name of the resort town in Kujawsko-Pomorskie known for the "Rainbow" band? Answer: Sopot
Question: What is the name of the actor who played the role of Iron Man? Answer: Robert downey j
Question: What was the name of the English physicist who carried out the first artificial nuclear reaction, for which he won the Nobel Prize? Answer: Ernest rutherford
Question: Which French marshal commanded the defense at Verdun? Answer: (general) pet
Question: Which Warsaw museum awards the Jan Rodowicz "Anoda" prize? Answer: Museum of Warsaw
Question: Is Bunraku a Japanese theater or a Chinese theater? Answer: Japanese
Question: On which continent is Brunei located? Answer: Asia
Question: Swedes are a subspecies of which oilseed plant? Answer: Flax
Question: Which Italian artist is the author of such works as "Pieta", "David"? Answer: Michelangelo
Question: Are elderberries edible? Answer: Yes
Question: In what century did Francesco Petrarca create? Answer: 14th
Question: How many types of temperaments did Hippocrates distinguish? Answer: Four
Question: On which continent is Sudan located? Answer: Africa
Question: What were the names of the half-human, half-horse people living in the forests of Thessaly? Answer: Centaur
Question: Please complete: "Grandfather spoke to the image, and the image..."? Answer: Answered
Question: What is the name of the mine in Katowice, Poland, where 9 miners were killed during a strike in December 1981? Answer: Zabrze
Question: Who commanded the Polish army at the Battle of Olszynka Grochowska? Answer: General Maczek
Question: In which book Niccolò Machiavelli included the words: "The end justifies the means"? Answer: The prince
Question: According to Polish law, can a person who is 70 years of age or older obtain unemployment status? Answer: Yes
Question: What was the name of Louis XVI's wife, beheaded during the French Revolution? Answer: Marie antoinette
Question: At which lake does the Mice Tower stand? Answer: Lake Geneva
Question: Which insects transmit yellow fever? Answer: Mosquitoes
Question: Which Polish woman was the first to conquer the Crown of the Earth? Answer: Queen Jadwiga
Question: What colors are on the flag of Monaco? Answer: Red and white
Question: What does ichnology study? Answer: Footprints
Question: What year does Sienkiewicz write about in "With Fire and Sword" that "it was a strange year"? Answer: 1610
Question: In what century did English writer Charles Dickens live? Answer: 19th
Question: What is the name of the passive, non-contractile part of the muscle that attaches it to the bone? Answer: Tendon
Question: How many stars are on the US flag? Answer: 13
Question: Abak in ancient Greece is a type of what? Answer: Boat
Question: What was the name of the Swiss hero Tell? Answer: William
Question: To whom, according to the proverb, does the devil sway the children? Answer: The schoolmaster
Question: Which ocean has the largest surface area? Answer: Pacific
Question: The wife of which Polish king from 1402 was Anna of Cilicia? Answer: Casimir iii
Question: What is the name of the philosophical direction in which experience is most important? Answer: Existentialism
Question: What do we call a simple diagnostic instrument for auscultating a patient in medicine? Answer: Stethoscope
Question: What is the name of the highest peak in the Silesian Beskid? Answer: Rysy
Question: What goes along with the promise? Answer: The threat
Question: What is someone born into who is exceptionally lucky? Answer: A Fortuna
Question: Where was the first seat of the Grand Master of the Templar order located? Answer: Jerusalem
Question: What color is the maple leaf that marks a novice driver? Answer: Green
Question: What currency is used in Spain? Answer: Euro
Question: Did Buffalo Bill, the legendary hero of the Wild West, really exist? Answer: Yes
Question: Laudation can be minted or delivered Answer: In gold
Question: What is the name of the Polish footballer who scored 4 goals in one Champions League game? Answer: Robert lewandowski
Question: Who was the court physician of Stefan Batory and Sigismund III Vasa? Answer: Jan zywn
Question: Is a pamphlet a praise or mockery piece? Answer: Mockery
Question: In which country did the commedia dell'arte type of stage show originate? Answer: Italy
Question: In which city did Frederic Chopin's last public concert take place on November 16, 1848? Answer: Warsaw
Question: What do we call the war that ended with the Peace of Torun in 1466? Answer: The war of the
Question: In what century was serfdom abolished in Russia? Answer: 19th
Question: In what month of 1945 did General Leopold Okulicki give the order to disband the Home Army? Answer: January
Question: From which dynasty did Conrad of Mazovia come? Answer: Piast
Question: Who traded the hatchet for a stick? Answer: The woodcutter
Question: Are harpsichord and clavichord the same thing? Answer: No
Question: How many seconds is one angular degree? Answer: 60
Question: What is the chemical symbol for silicon? Answer: Si
Question: Which artist performed the song "Time like a river"? Answer: Cyndi lauper
Question: What is the name of the canopy chair carried by the porters? Answer: Portmanteau
Question: What sport does Miroslav Klose play? Answer: Soccer
Question: What is the name of the general bar association? Answer: The american bar
Question: What is the square root of 64? Answer: 4
Question: What did the character played by Dustin Hoffman in "Rain Man" suffer from? Answer: Autism
Question: Do tapirs have trumpets? Answer: No
Question: The figure of which Greek god is represented by a statue on London's Piccadilly Circus? Answer: Eros
Question: Which country's flag is Freedom holding in Eugène Delacroix's painting? Answer: France
Question: From which place on Earth do all roads lead north? Answer: Rome
Question: What is the name of the Philistine city where Samson was killed? Answer: Gaza
Question: In which city in 1993 was the treaty establishing the European Union signed? Answer: Maastricht
Question: What were the names of the segregated areas for the black population in South Africa? Answer: Bantustans
Question: Which city is the capital of Scotland? Answer: Edinburgh
Question: In which of Słowacki's dramas does Dafnicki appear? Answer: The king's shadow
Question: What does verte literally mean? Answer: Green
Question: What was the name of Othello's wife? Answer: Desdemona
Question: What is the name of the room under the floor of the church where the dead were buried? Answer: Catacombs
Question: In what century did Franz Schubert create? Answer: 19th century
Question: Which country was the first visited by Tom Wilmowski, the hero of a series of books written by Alfred Szklarski? Answer: Poland
Question: What is the name of the tape used to ride a horse on a wheel? Answer: Trotting board
Question: In which country from 1938 to 1991 was the title of Hero of Socialist Labor awarded? Answer: Czechoslovakia
Question: Is Chile a predominantly mountainous or lowland country? Answer: Mountainous
Question: Kapism is a direction in which field of Polish art? Answer: Painting
Question: In which German city does the Cecilienhof Palace stand? Answer: Potsdam
Question: Do the AV node and SA occur in the brain or heart? Answer: Heart
Question: What was the name of the female prime minister of Israel? Answer: Golda meir
Question: What is the title of Moniuszko's opera in which a poor highland girl falls in love with a nobleman? Answer: The Bartered Br
Question: Was the Olympic stadium in Wroclaw built before or after World War II? Answer: After
Question: How many performers does the sextet consist of? Answer: 6
Question: What is the name of the craftsman who covers furniture with fabric? Answer: Upholster
Question: Anatolia is the Asian part of which country? Answer: Turkey
Question: Which Roman ruler introduced the Julian calendar? Answer: Julius caesar
Question: In a nest in which tree was the nightingale lady waiting for her late husband in Julian Tuwim's poem? Answer: The linden tree
Question: What is the intermediate voice between tenor and bass? Answer: Baritone
Question: Who is the author of the saying "Homo sum et nihil humanum a me alienum esse puto"? Answer: Terence
Question: Part of which continent is the Chukotka Peninsula? Answer: Asia
Question: Convergence is similarity or opposite? Answer: Similarity
Question: What was the name of the first president of the Palestinian Authority? Answer: Yasser araf
Question: According to Greek mythology, how many monstrous sisters called Gorgons were there? Answer: Three
Question: In which province are the districts of Grójec, Radom? Answer: Mazowieckie
Question: What does the Latin phrase "contram naturae" mean? Answer: Against nature
Question: What did the letter T lose according to the poem "Abecadło"? Answer: The tail
Question: What is the name of the liberator of South America from Spanish sovereignty? Answer: Simon bolivar
Question: Is Albania located on the Balkan peninsula? Answer: Yes
Question: In French, what is the name of the show in honor of which actor? Answer: Les cesars
Question: What is the name of the melody played by the mechanism in clocks? Answer: Westminster chimes
Question: Is a sonata an instrumental or vocal piece? Answer: Instrumental
Question: What is the name of the winged horse, a symbol of poetic inspiration? Answer: Pegasus
Question: In which state is Alcatraz located? Answer: California
Question: In what century did Mendeleev publish the periodic table of elements? Answer: 19th century
Question: Did Paul Gauguin know Vincent van Gogh? Answer: Yes
Question: What religious congregation did Father John Bosco found in 1859? Answer: Salesians
Question: "One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich" by Alexander Solzhenitsyn describes what place? Answer: A gulag
Question: What was the name of the writer and traveler, author of the novels "Canada Smells of Resin" and "Fish Sing in Ukajala"? Answer: John g. Ne
Question: What country is composer Jaromír Nohavica from? Answer: Czech Republic
Question: The head of which European country is Queen Margrethe II? Answer: Denmark
Question: Did Nicolaus Copernicus study medicine? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of one of the hills in Rome where the seat of the President of the Republic is located? Answer: Quirinal
Question: What is the name of the ethnic group living in the Prut and Cheremosh area? Answer: Gagauz
Question: Among the Celts, what were the names of those who served as priests, diviners doctors? Answer: Druids
Question: What color are the snowdrop flowers? Answer: White
Question: How many fingers does a bear's paw have? Answer: Five
Question: Rodło the symbol of Poles in Germany contains the outline of which Polish river? Answer: Vistula
Question: In which country was the so-called terracotta army created? Answer: China
Question: Is Piaf a real name or a pseudonym for the famous singer? Answer: A real name
Question: Through which capital city does the Potomac River flow? Answer: Washington
Question: What did Cain do for a living? Answer: A farmer
Question: Where, according to the proverb, should you not put your fingers? Answer: In a pie
Question: What was the name of the 1807 document regulating the system of the Duchy of Warsaw? Answer: Constitution
Question: What is the name of Japan's largest island? Answer: Honshu
Question: In which city is the headquarters of the European Space Agency located? Answer: Paris
Question: Which animal was tamed and then given to John III Sobieski by Jan Chryzostom Pasek? Answer: Wolf
Question: Who is the author of "Midsummer's Song about Sobotka"? Answer: William shakespeare
Question: Which Polish destroyer was sunk during the Battle of Narvik? Answer: Orzeł
Question: The words "retinue", "dobosz" - come from which language? Answer: Hungarian
Question: What was the name of the Polish field hetman, commander at the battles of Trzciana and Hamersztyn? Answer: Jan zaglinski
Question: Can it be supervisory, pedagogical, or factory? Answer: Management
Question: Someone who changes his views frequently, changes them like...? Answer: A weather vane
Question: Which Polish writer and philosopher is the author of the book "Mini-lectures on maxi-issues"? Answer: Leszek koł
Question: What was the name of Mr. Volodyjowski's friend who died with him in the rubble of Kamieniec castle? Answer: Mr. Klim
Question: Sayings and proverbs: what stings? Answer: A bee
Question: Combinatorics is the field of which science? Answer: Mathematics
Question: What is the name of the narrow strip of land at Maliakos Bay where the Greeks suffered defeat with the Persians? Answer: Thermopylae
Question: How many times did Wincenty Witos hold the office of prime minister? Answer: Twice
Question: Is there an animal named basilisk in nature? Answer: Yes
Question: Is the Dalai Lama XIV a Nobel Prize winner? Answer: Yes
Question: In Hinduism, what is the name of the wife of Vishnu, the goddess of happiness, mother of Kama? Answer: Lakshmi
Question: In which ocean are the Japanese islands located? Answer: Pacific ocean
Question: Who on the homestead is equal to the governor according to the proverb? Answer: The farmer
Question: Who, according to a teacher in one of Gombrowicz's works, "the great poet was"? Answer: William wordsworth
Question: Is the jackal bigger than the wolf? Answer: Yes
Question: Which means of payment came into existence earlier: coins or banknotes? Answer: Coins
Question: What is the name of Polish jazzman Stanko? Answer: Stanislav
Question: On which continent is The Gambia located? Answer: Africa
Question: In March, the polar night begins at which pole? Answer: North pole
Question: From which island did Icarus flee on his wings? Answer: Samos
Question: What is the name of the largest animal in the seal family? Answer: Sea lion
Question: What day is International Women's Day celebrated? Answer: 8th march
Question: What is the official language in Ecuador? Answer: Spanish
Question: Work on what film was not completed by Andrzej Munk due to his death? Answer: The man who would
Question: What does speleology do? Answer: It studies caves
Question: What is the name of the view according to which man is the center of the universe? Answer: Anthropocentrism
Question: Which composer is called the "Chopin of the North"? Answer: Grieg
Question: Nikos Kazandzakis is the author of a novel that has been filmed and the movie has won three Academy Awards. What is its title? Answer: The last temptation
Question: Who wrote the novel "Children of Arbat"? Answer: Irina tsv
Question: Is the NHL a professional field hockey or basketball league? Answer: Ice hockey
Question: What is Latin for forced seclusion of political opponents? Answer: Exile
Question: What is the name of the teddy bear with the flapping ears from the popular bedtime show? Answer: Snuffles
Question: Which country was divided along the 17th parallel at the Geneva Conference in 1954? Answer: Vietnam
Question: What was the name of the Polish cardiac surgeon, Professor Religa? Answer: Prof. Religa
Question: Are there countries outside the EU where the euro has been introduced? Answer: Yes, Andorra,
Question: What is the name of the branch of astronomy that deals with the study of the Moon's surface? Answer: Selenography
Question: What, according to the saying, did the turnip cling to? Answer: The wall
Question: Logorea is wordiness or silence? Answer: Words
Question: Is it possible to draw a square and a circle with the same area using a compass and a ruler? Answer: No
Question: From which country does Roquefort cheese originate? Answer: France
Question: What color are the almonds that symbolize dreams? Answer: White
Question: The letters of St. Paul, St. Peter are found in the Old or New Testament? Answer: New Testament
Question: What is the name of the device in the camera that dispenses the access time of light to the light-sensitive element? Answer: Diaphragm
Question: Where does the merry-go-round spin in Maria Koterbska's song? Answer: In the park
Question: In what language do we say "Achtung" (i.e., "attention")? Answer: German
Question: How many penalty points can a driver who overtakes at a pedestrian crossing receive? Answer: Three
Question: What flavor does wormwood infusion have? Answer: Bitter
Question: Which letter in the Greek alphabet is omega? Answer: Omega
Question: How many altars does the procession lead to on Corpus Christi Day? Answer: 14
Question: Cambrian, Ordovician, Silurian, Devonian, Carboniferous, and Permian - these are the periods of which era? Answer: The Paleozoic
Question: Please list the first degree of the adjective variety. Answer: Variety
Question: What is the name of the form of organization of society in which women predominate? Answer: Gynarchy
Question: In which coastal city can we walk along the Long Market? Answer: Brighton
Question: In which European country besides Russia is the ruble the currency? Answer: Belarus
Question: What is the name of the duel between the winners of the quarterfinals? Answer: Semi-final
Question: What was the three-letter abbreviation for Soviet fighter planes? Answer: Mig
Question: On which day of the week does Corpus Christi fall in the Catholic Church? Answer: Thursday
Question: The anthem of which country begins with the words: "Forward, children of the motherland"? Answer: China
Question: The temporary capital of which Asian country was Nanjing in the 20th century? Answer: China
Question: What was the name of Tom Sawyer's friend? Answer: Huckleberry Finn
Question: What is the name of the traditional dress of the Scottish Highlanders, a short plaid skirt? Answer: Kilt
Question: The wife of which king was Marie Kazimiera d'Arquien, known as Marysieńka? Answer: Stanisław Leszc
Question: What is the name of the capital of Germany? Answer: Berlin
Question: From which country does fashion dictator Christian Dior hail? Answer: France
Question: What do sailors call the wind that blows obliquely off the bow of a ship? Answer: Bowline
Question: What is the name of the Indian boat with a wood frame, covered with birch bark, the prototype of the canoe? Answer: Birch bark canoe
Question: How many perpendiculars does an acute-angled triangle have? Answer: Two
Question: Who played the lead role in The Witcher movie based on Sapkowski's book? Answer: Henry cavill
Question: What nationality was Charles May? Answer: British
Question: On a multi-masted sailing ship, the foresail is the mast at the front, middle or back of the ship? Answer: Front
Question: What is the name of the hero of English legends, the protector of the poor hiding in the Yorkshire woods? Answer: Robin hood
Question: How many lakes does the Great American Lakes system have? Answer: 5
Question: How many syllables does the Japanese poetic form Haiku consist of: 11, 15 or 17? Answer: 17
Question: Which dynasty reigned in China from the 14th to the 17th century? Answer: Ming
Question: If we have 11 pairs of socks, how many total socks do we have? Answer: 22
Question: Which country was Edmund Hillary, the first conqueror of Mount Everest, from? Answer: New zealand
Question: In which Sudetic mountains can you climb Szczeliniec Wielki? Answer: Sudetes
Question: Are toads protected in Poland? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the branch of medicine that deals with immunity? Answer: Immunology
Question: The fleet of which country defeated the so-called "Great Armada" in the 16th century? Answer: England
Question: What is the name of the game of picking individual sticks from a disorderly pile so as not to move others? Answer: Stick picking
Question: What was the name of the last king of the Piast dynasty? Answer: Mieszko ii
Question: What is the name of the place in court where defendants sit? Answer: The dock
Question: What is the name of the roster of court cases held on the same day after each other? Answer: Sessions
Question: What living organisms does lichenology deal with? Answer: Lichens
Question: Is the kestrel a bird of prey? Answer: Yes
Question: Please provide the plural complement of the word kobza? Answer: Kobzas
Question: What is the name of a domino dice containing no dots, with a blank field? Answer: Blank
Question: What is the name of the oldest Polish theater still operating today? Answer: Teatr Polski
Question: What was the name of the creator of the character Mr. Blob? Answer: John blyth
Question: Warsaw's Praga district lies on the left or right bank of the Vistula River? Answer: Left
Question: On what lake is Lausanne located? Answer: Lake Geneva
Question: In which of Mrożek's dramas do XX and AA appear? Answer: The man with the
Question: Does a vegetarian eat meat? Answer: No
Question: Brooklyn is a borough of which American city? Answer: New York
Question: Pablo Picasso or Vincent van Gogh - which one was born in Spain? Answer: Pablo Picasso
Question: What is the name of the country in northern Africa that has Tripoli as its capital? Answer: Libya
Question: What, according to the proverb, can't a crow beat a raven? Answer: A fight
Question: What is the name of Russian President Putin? Answer: Vladimir
Question: A professor at which university was Isaac Newton? Answer: Cambridge
Question: On which continent do two mountain ranges named after John Czersky rise? Answer: Europe
Question: What does the codename of the German action "Nacht und Nebel" mean in Polish? Answer: Night and fog
Question: On which continent do the Hutu peoples live? Answer: Africa
Question: From which country does the strong brandy Metaxa originate? Answer: Greece
Question: Is Latin an official language in the Vatican? Answer: Yes
Question: In what year did Croatia join the European Union? Answer: 2013
Question: What train can you get on in Maryla Rodowicz's song titled. "Remedy?" Answer: The train to b
Question: Is lactose a simple sugar? Answer: No
Question: Are there any buffalo still alive today? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the saddle volleying of a galloping horse practiced at a show? Answer: Volte
Question: The tricorn, the cloche, the fedora - these cover which part of the body? Answer: Head
Question: Which traveler in the 15th century discovered a sea route to India? Answer: Vasco da gama
Question: Did Boccaccio have a chance encounter with Francesco Petrarca? Answer: Yes
Question: Do nightingales fly away from Poland for the winter? Answer: No
Question: In which European country is the Order of Gediminas awarded? Answer: Lithuania
Question: What was the name of the English king nicknamed Lionheart? Answer: Richard i
Question: Who was the originator of chemical vocabulary in Poland? Answer: (ludwik
Question: What is the name of the back of the ship? Answer: Stern
Question: One ruble - how many kopecks is that? Answer: 100
Question: What is the name of the customary law according to which a widow must marry the brother of the deceased? Answer: Levirate
Question: Do you need eggs to bake sponge cakes? Answer: Yes
Question: How many zeros does a billion have? Answer: Nine
Question: Where do these places occur: Ocean of Storms, Sea of Moisture, Sea of Tranquility, Sea of Clouds? Answer: On the moon
Question: Are cuckoos protected year-round in Poland? Answer: No
Question: What is the Greek name for bronchial thrush? Answer: Aspergillos
Question: What does the Latin saying "amor vincit omnia" mean? Answer: Love conquers all
Question: In which century did the Second Vatican Council take place? Answer: 20th
Question: What is the name of the rock group formed in 1981 by Jan Borysewicz? Answer: The cure
Question: What used to be the name of a lady's notebook for determining the order of dances and partners at a ball? Answer: Dance card
Question: What nationality was Celsius? Answer: Swedish
Question: During which war is the action of "The Adventures of the Good Soldier Swejk" set? Answer: World War I
Question: What was the name of Jacek Kuroń's son? Answer: Adam
Question: How many witches predicted Macbeth's fate? Answer: Three
Question: From the name of a geometric figure, what do we call a power with exponent 2? Answer: Square
Question: Are malaria and yellow fever names for the same disease? Answer: No
Question: Which city hosts the festival at which the Golden Shells are presented? Answer: Venice
Question: What is spaced running called in athletics? Answer: Interval training
Question: Does the population of the Falklands exceed 200,000? Answer: No
Question: In what century was one of science's most important books On the Origin of Species by Charles Darwin published? Answer: 19th century
Question: What is the official language in Iceland? Answer: Icelandic
Question: Small dumplings stuffed with chopped meat, served with broth, popular in Lithuania are...? Answer: Cepelinai
Question: Which country did painter Francisco Goya come from? Answer: Spain
Question: According to the title, how many incarnations did John Piszczyk have? Answer: Three
Question: In what year did the bloody pacification at the Wujek mine take place? Answer: 1945
Question: Did Niccolò Paganini give concerts in Poland? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the Greek name for the sudden, uncontrollable fear of a larger number of people? Answer: Ailuroph
Question: A favorite is the variety of which fruit? Answer: Apple
Question: In which city is the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea located? Answer: Hamburg
Question: Which zodiac sign bears the same name as the measuring device? Answer: Libra
Question: In which country did Ashoka rule? Answer: India
Question: What is the name of the Krakow hill with the Dragon's Den and the Royal Castle? Answer: Wawel
Question: Whose wife in Reymont's "Peasants" was Jagna? Answer: Wladek
Question: Which Italian university did both Kochanowski and Copernicus study at? Answer: Bologna
Question: Do ibises, storks and herons belong to the same family? Answer: Ciconiidae
Question: Through which sea did Moses lead the Israelites? Answer: Red sea
Question: How many oceans surround Antarctica? Answer: 3
Question: Which river is Częstochowa located on? Answer: Vistula
Question: What was the name of the Blessed Virgin Mary's father? Answer: Saint Joachim
Question: What part of speech is: "yesterday", "tomorrow", "loudly"? Answer: Adverb
Question: Does the Halal cause the temperature to rise or fall? Answer: It causes the temperature
Question: Where is the Harbour Bridge located? Answer: Sydney
Question: What is the Polish name for malaria? Answer: Choroby ch
Question: What are billiard balls called? Answer: Balls
Question: What is the name of the band that Jacek and Andrew Zielinski founded in 1965? Answer: The beach boys
Question: What were the underground cemeteries in ancient Rome called? Answer: Catacombs
Question: Is Proxima centauri a star or a planet? Answer: A star
Question: What is the name of a sweet, strong wine from the Douro River Valley in Portugal? Answer: Port
Question: Is Poland a member of the World Trade Organization? Answer: Yes
Question: Is the Republic's flag day a public holiday? Answer: Yes
Question: What was the name of the author of the words: "Peaceful village, merry village! Which voice to your glory will manage?"? Answer: William blake
Question: The capital of which country is Copenhagen? Answer: Denmark
Question: Which female mountaineer was the first European to climb Mount Everest? Answer: Edurne pasaban
Question: What animal is the symbol of the Tatra National Park? Answer: Chamois
Question: Is the ladybug (God cow) herbivorous or is it a predator? Answer: Herbivorous
Question: Who was the leader of ancient Rome's largest slave uprising? Answer: Spartacus
Question: The prime ministers of which country were Neville Chamberlain and Harold Wilson? Answer: Britain
Question: Which city in the U.S. is home to Columbia University, one of the oldest in the U.S.? Answer: New york
Question: Does Ethiopia have access to the sea? Answer: Yes
Question: In which discipline is the Roland Garros Tournament held? Answer: Tennis
Question: How many trumpets brought down the walls of Jericho? Answer: Seven
Question: What day do we celebrate National Education Day? Answer: 3rd november
Question: Which endocrine gland secretes thyroxine? Answer: Thyroid
Question: To give someone something that he or she cannot appreciate is, according to the proverb, to "cast pearls before..."? Answer: Swine
Question: Which insects produce propolis? Answer: Bees
Question: Which character of Ernest Hemingway uttered the words: "A man can be destroyed, but not defeated"? Answer: Santiago in the novel
Question: Which city was Casanova from? Answer: Venice
Question: Was Henry VIII also king of Ireland? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the short spatula used in the military? Answer: Spatula
Question: What does "sayonara" mean in Japanese? Answer: Good-bye
Question: On the territory of which country is the Knyszynska Forest located? Answer: Poland
Question: Did Lech Walesa receive the Nobel Prize in person? Answer: No
Question: What is the colloquial name for the classical style in swimming? Answer: Freestyle
Question: Has a woman ever sat alone on the throne of Poland? Answer: Jadwiga
Question: At what age was Walt Disney born? Answer: 1901
Question: Please complete: "What Johnny doesn't learn, that John..."? Answer: Does
Question: What is the name of Adam Mickiewicz's youthful love? Answer: Zosia
Question: In what century did the Battle of Acacia take place? Answer: 17th
Question: How many Budrys were featured in Adam Mickiewicz's ballad? Answer: Three
Question: In what year did the so-called Pinczow republic exist? Answer: 1918
Question: Does Hungary have the Carpathian Mountains in its territory? Answer: Yes
Question: Were women allowed to sit on the throne of Egypt? Answer: No
Question: The plot of which Shakespeare drama is set in Kronborg Castle? Answer: Hamlet
Question: What part of speech answers the question "what does"? Answer: Adjective
Question: What nationality was Marcel Proust? Answer: French
Question: What does "vademecum" literally mean in Latin? Answer: Take me with you
Question: Are daisies protected in Poland? Answer: No
Question: Who discovered sunspots in the 17th century? Answer: Galileo
Question: What was the name of the Polish pharmacist who developed the kerosene lamp? Answer: Jan szczepan
Question: Please give the abbreviation of the French international soccer federation? Answer: FFF
Question: Does the truffle fruiting body grow underground? Answer: Yes
Question: Please provide the name of the actor who created the creation of Nikodem Dyzma, Stanislav Angel? Answer: Michael shannon
Question: In which city is the Field Cathedral of the Polish Army located? Answer: Warsaw
Question: What are the names of the members of the order founded in 1155 on Mount Carmel? Answer: Carmelites
Question: In which city is the Malta theater festival held? Answer: Valletta
Question: Is the anaconda a strangler? Answer: No
Question: The content of which opera by Giuseppe Verdi is the fate of Jews seeking to break out of Babylonian captivity? Answer: Nabucco
Question: Under what circumstances does one make a true friend? Answer: In adversity
Question: Do crampons have a spine? Answer: No
Question: In what century did the Byzantine Empire fall? Answer: 15th
Question: Which figures of one color make up the marias in the card game? Answer: The black ones
Question: Who was the author of the polychrome in Turek? Answer: Jan Matejko
Question: What does the lazy man sit on in Jan Brzechwa's poem? Answer: A chair
Question: What is the mating period of fish called? Answer: Spawning
Question: The image of which president appears on the Purple Heart military decoration? Answer: George washington
Question: What was the name of Jane Fonda's father? Answer: Henry
Question: On which river does Lowicz lie? Answer: Vistula
Question: What is the name of the section of history dealing with seals? Answer: Sealogy
Question: In which national park is the Prądnik Valley located? Answer: Bieszcz
Question: What is the Greek name for the exposed part of the stage in front of the curtain? Answer: Proscenium
Question: What is the name of the portrait made by the artist himself? Answer: Self-portrait
Question: Does the kinetic energy of a body in motion depend on its mass? Answer: Yes
Question: Is the shroud on a sailing ship one of the rear masts? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of the surgical thread made of sheep intestine? Answer: Catgut
Question: Is Thailand an island? Answer: No
Question: In which country did Polish archaeologists discover a tomb of the Wari civilization in 2013? Answer: Peru
Question: What is the name of highly ionized air in which the number of free electrons is equal to the number of cations? Answer: Plasma
Question: What is the name of the candle holder designed for one candle, the word comes from German? Answer: Hanukkah
Question: What inclination did the dentist have in the title of Maryla Rodowicz's song? Answer: To the left
Question: What is thrown at the feet of the person we want to make something difficult? Answer: A wet blanket
Question: Which of Sigismund the Old's wives was Queen Bona? Answer: Queen Bona
Question: What is the name of the inn from Adam Mickiewicz's ballad "Pani Twardowska"? Answer: The inn of the
Question: Do birds called snipe live in Poland? Answer: No
Question: Which tree represents the roots of man? Answer: Yew
Question: Which city did a naked Archimedes run around shouting "Eureka"? Answer: Syracuse
Question: Aaron, the first high priest was the older brother of which prophet? Answer: Moses
Question: In what year did Hitler carry out the Anschluss of Austria? Answer: 1938
Question: In what year was the Alfred Nobel Foundation established? Answer: 1900
Question: Which character in "With Fire and Sword" had a habit of saying "listen hadko"? Answer: The king
Question: In which Polish city was the Swietokrzyski Bridge built? Answer: Krakow
Question: Are hornets a type of large wasps or large bees? Answer: Wasps
Question: Is Switzerland a member of the North Atlantic Pact? Answer: Yes
Question: How many male voices were matched by the voice of Stentor from the Iliad? Answer: 50
Question: Kugel is one of the traditional dishes of Jewish cuisine, is this dish prepared by a kugler? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of a rubber bag filled with hot water used to locally heat the body? Answer: Hot water bottle
Question: In which city does Wanda's mound rise? Answer: Birmingham
Question: What is the French name for the opening of an exhibition combined with a meeting with the author? Answer: Vernissage
Question: To which of the basic genres of drama does "Odprawa posłów greckich" belong? Answer: Tragedy
Question: What does the saying bake cancer mean? Answer: To die
Question: Are there streetcars running around Szczecin? Answer: Yes
Question: The spouse of which prime minister was Nina Andrycz? Answer: Edward Heath
Question: How many zeros does one million contain in decimal notation? Answer: Nine
Question: How many strings does the hammer in a piano hit at the lowest notes? Answer: Two
Question: In which city do the Petronas Towers rise? Answer: Kuala lumpur
Question: Who is the author of the Monument to the Insurgent Deed on Mount St. Anne? Answer: John f. k
Question: What is the French name for a merchant who deals in paintings, works of art? Answer: Galeriste
Question: Who is the author of the fairy tale "Hansel and Gretel"? Answer: The brothers grimm
Question: What was Faraday's name? Answer: Michael faraday
Question: "Man - God's plaything", from the work of which writer this quote comes from? Answer: George bernard s
Question: In the run for how many meters did Stanislava Walasiewiczówna win a medal in Los Angeles? Answer: She won a silver
Question: At the bottom of which sea did Poseidon live? Answer: The Mediterranean sea
Question: Which canal connects the Mediterranean Sea and the Red Sea? Answer: Suez canal
Question: After which World War was the Central Statistical Office established in Poland? Answer: World War II
Question: Can turquoise be found in Poland? Answer: No
Question: In the waters of which river did John the Baptist baptize Christ? Answer: River Jordan
Question: Did Pablo Picasso ever visit Poland? Answer: Yes
Question: Do a brilliant and a diamond have the same chemical composition? Answer: No
Question: By Australia lies the island of Zealand or New Zealand? Answer: New Zealand
Question: LPG is a mixture of which two gases? Answer: Propane and but
Question: Did the quadriga coachman drive while standing or sitting? Answer: Sitting
Question: Which Polish composer is considered the creator of national opera? Answer: Stanislaw monius
Question: In which religion is the holy book the Tipitaka? Answer: Buddhism
Question: In which city was the One WTC skyscraper built? Answer: New York
Question: In which century did the Polish-Swedish war known as the Deluge take place? Answer: 17th century
Question: What was the name of the heroine of Pan Wolodyjowski, whom Zagloba called a hajduk? Answer: Zosia
Question: What kind of animal is Stuart Tiny, the hero of the book and several movies? Answer: Mouse
Question: Figures from which game did Alice see on the other side of the mirror? Answer: Chess
Question: Did Zygmunt Gloger, author of the "Old Polish Encyclopedia," ethnographer and sightseer, live in the 20th century? Answer: Yes
Question: In which national park is Snow Mountain located? Answer: Yosemite
Question: What mountains dominate Chile's landscape? Answer: Andes
Question: For how many days can the president impose a state of emergency in Poland? Answer: 30 days
Question: Where in the U.S. did Robert Kennedy die in the assassination? Answer: Los Angeles
Question: The chancellor of which country was Willy Brandt? Answer: Germany
Question: What is the name of the flag indicating the nationality of the ship? Answer: Red ensign
Question: Does the Catholic Church allow cremation? Answer: No
Question: Is Mikołaj Kossak the father or grandfather of Maria Pawlikowska-Jasnorzewska? Answer: Father
Question: Which Polish king listened to Skarga's sermons? Answer: Wladyslaw
Question: Is acetylene a noble gas? Answer: No
Question: In what year did the Battle of Trafalgar take place? Answer: 1805
Question: In which country is Kilimanjaro located? Answer: Tanzania
Question: What color were the uniforms worn by the Polish Army in France under General Haller? Answer: Red
Question: What is the plant's ability to turn toward light called? Answer: Phototropism
Question: The capital of which country is Luanda? Answer: Angola
Question: Lech Walesa, speaking in the US Congress in 1989, began his speech with the words: "We, the nation." To the text of which document was he referring? Answer: The declaration of independence
Question: In which country on the North Sea coast is the city of Arnhem located? Answer: The Netherlands
Question: How many years did Benedict XVI's pontificate last? Answer: 8 years
Question: What French word do we use to describe the rules of proper behavior in company? Answer: Etiquette
Question: Which Roman emperor was to appoint his horse as a senator? Answer: Caligula
Question: What was the name of the Caruso singer? Answer: Enrico
Question: The Two Shores Film Festival takes place simultaneously in two towns on two banks of the Vistula River. One of them is Janowiec, and the other? Answer: Sopot
Question: Under what pseudonym did Krzysztof Trzcinski perform? Answer: Krzyszto
Question: Are blintzes dumplings or pancakes? Answer: Pancakes
Question: In what century was the Mohs scale, used to determine the hardness of minerals, developed? Answer: 19th century
Question: What was the name of Pollux's twin brother? Answer: Castor
Question: What is the name of the Orthodox temple? Answer: Church
Question: Who is the author of the historical poem "Grażyna"? Answer: Juliusz Sł
Question: Who recorded for posterity the legend of Wanda, who did not want a German? Answer: Marlene Dietrich
Question: What is the name of Franz Lehar's Merry Widow of the title? Answer: Hanna Glawari
Question: Which state is New England located in? Answer: Massachusetts
Question: To which dynasty does Spain's ruling Juan Carlos belong? Answer: House of Bourbon
Question: On the tombstone of which writer buried in the Powązki cemetery is the inscription: "heart of hearts"? Answer: Juliusz sł
Question: One decagram how many grams is that? Answer: One hundred
Question: What is the name of the largest island in the Baltic Sea? Answer: Gotland
Question: What was the name of the title maiden, whose madness was described by Kornel Makuszyński? Answer: The lady with the
Question: On how many islands is Venice located - about 50 or on more than a hundred? Answer: About 50
Question: Which country's fleet clashed with the Japanese fleet during the Battle of Tsushima in 1905? Answer: Russia
Question: What was the name of the absentminded gentleman looking for his glasses in Julian Tuwim's poem? Answer: Mr. Bial
Question: In which province is Słupsk located? Answer: Pomeranian Voiv
Question: What is the name of the branch of geometry devoted to the study of spatial figures? Answer: Trigonometry
Question: What does the Latin phrase "mea culpa" mean in Polish? Answer: My fault
Question: Is cannelloni Italian pasta or pizza? Answer: Pasta
Question: Which city was the capital of the General Government? Answer: Philadelphia
Question: What mountains are the summit of Broad Peak located in? Answer: Karakorum
Question: What was the title of the erotic thriller starring Michael Douglas and Sharon Stone? Answer: Basic instinct
Question: What was the name of the figure gifted by Zeus with the tin containing all misfortunes? Answer: Pandora
Question: What was the name of the American baseball player, Marilyn Monroe's husband? Answer: Joe dimaggio
Question: Did Stefan Żeromski receive the Nobel Prize for literature? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of the author of the program "Case for a reporter"? Answer: John wilson
Question: Who wrote the children's song "Locomotive"? Answer: Edith nesbit
Question: What do we call a musical ensemble of five instrumentalists? Answer: Quintet
Question: To see... and die - which city is it about? Answer: Paris
Question: Anchovies is the French term for a dish made from fish, snails or frogs' legs? Answer: Escargot
Question: An English scout is...? Answer: A scout
Question: In what country did Catherine of Medici reign? Answer: France
Question: How many cannons did the Ordon redoubt have in Adam Mickiewicz's poem? Answer: Three
Question: The president of which country was Perón? Answer: Argentina
Question: Who is the author of the painting "The Last Judgment" located in Gdansk? Answer: Rembrandt
Question: What is the name of the smallest of Japan's four main islands? Answer: Shikoku
Question: Please provide the date of the capture of the Bastille. Answer: 14 July 1789
Question: The workshop of which Greek god was supposed to be located in the Etna volcano? Answer: Hephaestus
Question: In which wilderness is the January Uprising Memorial Forest located? Answer: Yosemite
Question: Did actor Leonardo DiCaprio play the role of Romeo? Answer: No
Question: Who was Nostradamus by profession? Answer: Astrologer
Question: What is the collective numeral of the number 9? Answer: Nine
Question: What is the name of the main character of "Chronicle of Love Accidents"? Answer: John
Question: What is the name of the geometric transformation in which the distance between each pair of points does not change? Answer: Translation
Question: What is the name of the headgear of lawyers, clergymen and professors? Answer: Wig
Question: Are alkanes and paraffins the same thing? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of a motorcycle race held in difficult terrain? Answer: Enduro
Question: What is the name of the smallest Roman military unit, which originally numbered 100 soldiers? Answer: Centurion
Question: What does the word fracas mean? Answer: A violent argument
Question: Who played the title role in the movie "Zorba the Greek"? Answer: Anthony Quinn
Question: What is the name of the element with the symbol Am? Answer: Americium
Question: Which Polish national park is the oldest? Answer: Bialowieza
Question: What is the Latin term for a holy place? Answer: Sanctum
Question: The Forrester family are characters in which series? Answer: Finding Forrester
Question: Is Polish Humanitarian Action a governmental or non-governmental organization? Answer: Governmental
Question: What is the name of the Częstochowa hill on which the Pauline monastery stands? Answer: Jasna Góra
Question: In what year did the last space shuttle mission take place? Answer: 2011
Question: Is the Hajduk an outer garment from Kashubia or an old Polish dance? Answer: Kashubia
Question: What was the name of Leszek the White's son nicknamed Shy? Answer: Casimir
Question: On which license plate are the numbers on the yellow background: regular, antique or temporary? Answer: On the yellow background
Question: What gas was the Hindenburg airship filled with during the famous crash? Answer: Hydrogen
Question: Which work by Adam Mickiewicz opens with a motto taken from Niccolò Machiavelli's "The Prince"? Answer: Pan Tadeusz
Question: What's the buzz in the Boy Scout song "Campfire in the Woods"? Answer: The campfire's
Question: Is leprosy a disease transmitted by bacteria or viruses? Answer: Bacteria
Question: What was the name of the author of a collection of fairy tales in 12 volumes published in the 17th century? Answer: Charles perrault
Question: What bay does the Vistula River drain into? Answer: Baltic sea
Question: In the square whose name is the Arc de Triomphe located in Paris? Answer: Place charles de
Question: Which islands are Russia and Japan competing for? Answer: Kuril islands
Question: A dish of raw vegetables, unbleached linen cloth, an iron-carbon alloy - this...? Answer: Carbonara
Question: Part of which country is the province of Quebec? Answer: Canada
Question: Can a snake swim? Answer: Yes
Question: What was the name of the hen that laid golden eggs? Answer: Hen of the golden
Question: What was the name of the yacht on which Teliga circumnavigated the world? Answer: Lively lady
Question: What is the name for entering into a new marriage during the course of a previous marriage? Answer: Concubinage
Question: What was the name of the former unit of measurement of an adult's arm's reach? Answer: Cubit
Question: Is the European Court of Auditors an EU court? Answer: No
Question: How old was the painter Wladyslaw Podkowiński, author of "Frenzy of Exultation"? Answer: 1734 - 17
Question: What is the name of the largest snail in Poland? Answer: The giant snail
Question: Which prince according to the chronicle of Gallus Anonymus was eaten by mice? Answer: The son of the
Question: Which America (North or South) has more population? Answer: North America
Question: Goldap is located on the border with which country? Answer: Poland
Question: Are beatification and canonization the same thing? Answer: No
Question: According to the saying, we fold our hands into a clamshell. And what do we fold into a clamshell? Answer: A clam
Question: Where is Raskolnikov sent after his confession? Answer: To the police station
Question: Which civil war did Ernest Hemingway participate in? Answer: Spanish Civil War
Question: What is the name of the curve described by a fixed point of a circle rolling without slippage outside another stationary circle? Answer: Cycloid
Question: How many eyes did Cyclops have? Answer: One
Question: What, in French, is the name of a road barrier built during street fighting? Answer: Barricade
Question: What is the name of the beer plant? Answer: Hops
Question: Where did the first screening of the Lumière brothers' film take place? Answer: Paris
Question: From which country does the martial art of kung-fu originate? Answer: China
Question: 111 or 112 - which of these numbers is divisible by 3? Answer: 111
Question: In what year did John III Sobieski achieve victory at Vienna? Answer: 1683
Question: In what century was the treaty of the three black eagles concluded? Answer: The sixteenth century
Question: Do you use chopsticks when playing the marimba? Answer: No
Question: What was the name of the vault in "Tales of a Thousand and One Nights", which required a password to open? Answer: The chest of the
Question: How many terms did George W. Bush serve as president? Answer: 2
Question: Which gas conducts heat best? Answer: Argon
Question: Which animal do we refer to as a coffin? Answer: Aardvark
Question: At which congress was the Free City of Krakow, or the Republic of Krakow, established? Answer: Congress of Vienna
Question: Can professional athletes compete in the Olympic Games? Answer: No
Question: How many kilograms does a liter of pure water weigh? Answer: 1
Question: What is the name of the Polish general who commanded the Hungarian insurgent army in 1848-49? Answer: Karolyi
Question: About someone seemingly strong but failing at a crucial moment, a Chinese proverb says, what kind of tiger? Answer: A paper tiger
Question: Is the ludo shark a tiger or a shark? Answer: Tiger
Question: What was the name of the Polish writer Nalkowska? Answer: Maria
Question: What is the name of a quartet composed of a cello, viola and two violins? Answer: String quartet
Question: From which country does Parmesan cheese originate? Answer: Italy
Question: In which ocean is the island of Mauritius located? Answer: Indian ocean
Question: Do axioms require proof? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of the drama in which one of the characters is Brabantio? Answer: Othello
Question: How many trips did Gulliver, the protagonist of Jonathan Swift's novel, take? Answer: Four
Question: Who is the author of "Romanticism" - the manifesto of Romanticism in Poland? Answer: Adam Mickiewicz
Question: Was parchment made from animal skins or from plants? Answer: Animal skins
Question: What is the name of the actor who played the role of Bond in the last three films? Answer: Daniel craig
Question: What animals saved Rome during the Gallic invasion in 390 BC? Answer: Geese
Question: Who is the author of the novella "Nasza szkapa"? Answer: Jerzy kosinski
Question: What is the name of a small wild sheep? Answer: Dall sheep
Question: What does the protagonist of Franz Kafka's short story titled "The Transformation" turn into? "Transformation?" Answer: A bug
Question: How much does the men's discus weigh in athletic competition? Answer: 2 kilograms (
Question: In which country do the springs of the Danube River beat? Answer: Germany
Question: How many crosses does the monument to shipyard workers killed in 1970 consist of? Answer: Six
Question: In which field in 1919 did Woodrow Wilson receive the Nobel Prize? Answer: Peace
Question: What is the name of the fundamental law that establishes the basis of the political system? Answer: Constitution
Question: Which city hosted the 1924 Olympic Games, where the Polish team officially debuted? Answer: Paris
Question: In what century were the statutes of Casimir the Great written? Answer: 13th
Question: From which century did the official name of the Russian Empire begin to be used? Answer: 17th century
Question: In the Middle Ages, how were students or pupils at cathedral schools referred to? Answer: Scholars
Question: What color was the Lancaster crest rose? Answer: White
Question: Whose face was Stańczyk wearing in Jan Matejko's painting? Answer: Napoleon
Question: Which country is Leonard Cohen from? Answer: Canada
Question: How many people make up the basic crew of an aircraft called a drone? Answer: One
Question: What was the name of the maiden with whom the bass player from the song "We are on vacation" by Wojciech Mlynarski fell in love? Answer: Zosia
Question: In which country are the Bakon Forest mountains located? Answer: Russia
Question: Jaggery, couscous, puff - types of what? Answer: Food
Question: Is magnetite an iron or magnesium ore? Answer: Iron
Question: What were the names of the Lumière Brothers? Answer: Auguste and Louis
Question: What was the name of the goose from the TV bedtime show who was friends with Puff? Answer: Puffin
Question: Is the gnomon a sundial or a spirit looking after the mines? Answer: A sundial
Question: In the delta of which river was the Rosetta stone found in 1799? Answer: Nile
Question: What number was designated by the Romans as XL? Answer: 40
Question: In what century did Mozart live? Answer: 18th
Question: What brand was the first mass-produced car in the US? Answer: Ford
Question: What is the name of Earth's only natural satellite? Answer: Moon
Question: What was the name of the wife of the USSR's only president? Answer: Raisa
Question: In which sport is Jaroslaw Hampel successful? Answer: Judo
Question: On which tree do acorns grow? Answer: Oaks
Question: In which city in the United States was the United Nations Charter signed? Answer: San francisco
Question: What discipline do Stefan Hula and Maciej Kot practice? Answer: Pole vaulting
Question: What was the name of the state established by the Crusaders in Palestine and Syria? Answer: Kingdom of Jerusalem
Question: Is lead needed to make pencils? Answer: No
Question: Does China border India? Answer: Yes
Question: Polesie is a plain located on the territory of three countries. In addition to Poland and Ukraine - which one else? Answer: Belarus
Question: Which saint was declared the patron saint of environmentalists by Pope John Paul II in 1979? Answer: St. francis
Question: In which city did Drakon exercise power in ancient times? Answer: Athens
Question: Was Alexander Gierymski's brother Nikolai a painter? Answer: Yes
Question: Pumpernickel is a type of what kind of bread? Answer: Rye
Question: The Persian Gulf is part of which ocean? Answer: The indian ocean
Question: Which Polish king reorganized the Cracow Academy at the end of the 14th century? Answer: Casimir the great
Question: What is the name of the unit of mass used in gemstone trading? Answer: Carat
Question: From which side of the world did the three kings come? Answer: East
Question: How many Parekas, goddesses of destiny, were there? Answer: Three
Question: In what year did the so-called Black Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange take place? Answer: 1929
Question: Which character in "Lalka," the author of the diary, took part in the Hungarian Revolution of 1848? Answer: The diary
Question: How many daughters did Zeus have with the goddess of memory Mnemosyne? Answer: Nine
Question: What do we call the physical quantity that describes the place occupied by a body in space? Answer: Position
Question: In what year did the Battle of Narvik take place? Answer: 1940
Question: What is the name of the city park that surrounds the oldest part of Krakow? Answer: Planty
Question: What nationality was Thomas Edison? Answer: American
Question: In which European country was a woman the first to become president? Answer: France
Question: Who was Tadeusz Kotarbinski by profession? Answer: A Polish writer
Question: Is the alto sung only by women? Answer: No
Question: In which country did the Velvet Revolution take place? Answer: Czechoslovakia
Question: Which Hun leader was called the Scourge of God? Answer: Attila
Question: Who is the composer of the opera "Madame Butterfly"? Answer: Puccini
Question: What was the name of the first balloon constructed by the Montgolfier brothers? Answer: The Montgolf
Question: What is the international abbreviation for east on maps? Answer: E
Question: At what latitude is the equator located? Answer: 0 degrees
Question: Is the Wislok River a tributary of the Vistula? Answer: Yes
Question: In which America do the Cascade Mountains rise? Answer: Washington
Question: What is the name of the chemical element whose name sounds the same as that of the gentleman burglar Lupin? Answer: Radium
Question: In which country are the towns of Katyn and Mednoye located? Answer: Belarus
Question: What is the name of the cave in France where Neolithic paintings were discovered on the walls in 1940? Answer: Lascaux
Question: What vine is Cassis wine made from? Answer: Blackcurrant
Question: In what century did van Gogh live? Answer: 19th
Question: In which ocean are the islands of Bora-Bora located? Answer: Pacific
Question: Which Greek god took care of travelers and found things? Answer: Hermes
Question: Where did Romuald Traugutt die? Answer: In a car accident
Question: Who do Muslims refer to as giaours? Answer: Non-believers
Question: A mastectomy is the removal of which part of the body? Answer: Breast
Question: What affinity do Krystyna Janda and Maria Seweryn share? Answer: Both are Polish actr
Question: What was the name of the Paris residence that was the residence of the party of the Great Emigration centered around Adam Czartoryski? Answer: Hotel de la rue
Question: In which former Soviet republic was Anna German born? Answer: Georgia
Question: In which city is Muhammad's tomb located? Answer: Medina
Question: Silesia is the Latin name of which region of Poland? Answer: Silesia
Question: What was the name of the island near which the Japanese fleet wrecked the Russian fleet in 1905? Answer: Tsushima
Question: What Indian tribe did Unkas, the protagonist of Cooper's book, come from? Answer: Mohican
Question: Does Poland belong to the G8? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of the town where the hospital in the TV series "For Better or Worse" is located? Answer: Aidensfield
Question: Which muse held no attribute in her hand? Answer: Melpomene
Question: What is the name of the main character of "House on the Spillway"? Answer: John
Question: What nationality was Christian Andersen? Answer: Danish
Question: Who, according to the proverb, is bothered by the hem of his skirt? Answer: A fool
Question: What professional group is controlled during hospitalization? Answer: Nurses
Question: What is the name of Romania's capital? Answer: Bucharest
Question: In which circle of hell are Ovid and Horace located according to Dante? Answer: The fifth circle
Question: What does a no-parking sign with a white Roman numeral one mean? Answer: No parking
Question: Who by profession was Herostrates, who set fire to the temple of Artemis in Ephesus? Answer: A sculptor
Question: The heroine of which work by Maria Konopnicka is Marysia Kukulanka, the goose girl? Answer: The goose girl
Question: Which composer, a cantor at St. Thomas Church in Leipzig, was the author of the 6 Brandenburg Concertos? Answer: Bach
Question: In what year was the March Constitution passed? Answer: 1781
Question: Is the pistil a male or female reproductive organ? Answer: Female
Question: What is the name of a sorrowful Ukrainian folk song? Answer: The song of the
Question: In which country do the so-called Colossi of Memnon stand? Answer: Egypt
Question: What is the name of a supporter of royal power? Answer: Tory
Question: In which country was the first highway built? Answer: Italy
Question: Is CNN an American or British television station? Answer: American
Question: This Nantes-born French writer, born in the 19th century, is considered a forerunner of science fiction literature. Who is it about? Answer:
Question: In what year was Poland admitted to NATO? Answer: 1999
Question: During which ceremony in Rome the words were uttered: "where you Gaius, there I Gaia"? Answer: The coronation of
Question: In which city did "The Globe" theater operate? Answer: London
Question: Which country is director Pedro Almodóvar from? Answer: Spain
Question: What is the French name for the person announcing the concerts? Answer: Le speaker
Question: In which city is the Silesian Wyspianski Theater located? Answer: Katowice
Question: In which province is Kartuzy located? Answer: Gdansk
Question: Is Cape Acacia located in Africa or Europe? Answer: Africa
Question: How many walls does the cuboid have? Answer: Six
Question: What is the name of the trigonometric function, the ratio of the length of the adjacent perpendicular to the length of the opposite perpendicular? Answer: Secant
Question: Around which city is the action of the Iliad centered? Answer: Troy
Question: In which Polish city is Przekrój published? Answer: Warsaw
Question: Was John III Vasa the king of Poland? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the science that studies crime as a social phenomenon? Answer: Criminology
Question: Which is bigger: the area of New York's Central Park or the principality of Monaco? Answer: Central Park
Question: In which Dutch city can you visit the van Gogh museum and Rembrandt's house? Answer: Amsterdam
Question: In which city was a criminal group called the Camorra founded? Answer: Naples
Question: In what century did Emperor Henry IV travel to Canossa? Answer: 11th
Question: In which European city is the d'Orsay museum located? Answer: Paris
Question: Did Alexander of Macedon and Aristotle ever meet? Answer: Yes
Question: Part of which city is the Majdanek district? Answer: Lublin
Question: In which country is the series "Allo, allo" set? Answer: France
Question: What sport is called the queen of sports? Answer: Tennis
Question: Who commanded the Polish army in the campaign against Austria in 1809? Answer: General Jan Henryk
Question: How many years before Orwell's book with the same title was published in 1984? Answer: 1984
Question: In which city is the stage of the Silesian Opera located? Answer: Katowice
Question: In which country was Moses born? Answer: Egypt
Question: What is the name of the white stiff cardboard; named after a town in England? Answer: Bristol board
Question: What country does the South Sporades archipelago belong to? Answer: Greece
Question: Does baker's yeast contain dead or live fungi? Answer: Live
Question: In what century did Pakistan proclaim independence? Answer: 20th
Question: What was the name of the Greek muse, the protector of history? Answer: Clio
Question: On which river is Gorzow Wielkopolski located? Answer: Oder
Question: Is caracena a weapon or armor? Answer: Armor
Question: The name of which Polish general appears in the Polish anthem? Answer: Tadeusz ko
Question: How many lions are in the emblem of Denmark? Answer: Three
Question: Do the laufer and the chaser move in the same way? Answer: No
Question: What pace is defined by the word largo? Answer: Slow
Question: Did Frederic Chopin compose waltzes? Answer: Yes
Question: Which hand is saluted in the Polish army? Answer: Right
Question: Whose name is the Warsaw Theater Academy named after? Answer: Stanislaw Ignacy
Question: What is the English name for a short circuit in boxing? Answer: A knockdown
Question: Part of which mountain chain are the Owl Mountains? Answer: Rocky mountains
Question: What kind of animal was the main character of the cartoon "Where's Nemo"? Answer: Clownfish
Question: Did St. Peter have a wife? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the ninth month of the Muslim lunar calendar in which fasting is obligatory? Answer: Ramadan
Question: On which ocean are the Falkland Islands located? Answer: Atlantic
Question: In what year did Christopher Columbus discover America? Answer: 1492
Question: On which river are Bratislava, Belgrade and Budapest located? Answer: Danube
Question: Who is Mashtalski, the hero of the jokes - a Silesian, a Mazurian or a Kashubian? Answer: Mashtalski
Question: Do tigers live in the Siberian taiga? Answer: Yes
Question: Pacemaker, stent - are they endo- or exoprostheses? Answer: Endoprosth
Question: In which Polish city is the district of Mościce located? Answer: Krakow
Question: Which element is most abundant in the universe? Answer: Hydrogen
Question: From which country did the fandango dance originate? Answer: Spain
Question: What is the name of the rock temple complex in Egypt relocated before Lake Nasser flooded? Answer: Abu simnel
Question: What does the Latin word "pater" mean? Answer: Father
Question: During the reign of which king did the incorporation of Prussia take place in 1454? Answer: Frederick ii
Question: Who announced that the planets move on ellipses? Answer: Kepler
Question: The violin competition held annually in Genoa is named after which violinist? Answer: Paganini
Question: What's a fish in a fishless world? Answer: A mammal
Question: The Nile is the longest river of which country? Answer: Egypt
Question: In addition to the Union Jack, which country's flag includes the Southern Cross? Answer: Australia
Question: What animals pull Santa's sleigh? Answer: Reindeer
Question: Who were the German fairy tale writers Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm to each other? Answer: Brothers
Question: What does "alma mater" literally mean? Answer: Mother's soul
Question: From what metal were thirds, coins worth three denarii, minted since the 14th century? Answer: Copper
Question: A statue of which poet is located in Krakow's main square? Answer: Adam Mickiewicz
Question: With which prominent scientist did the Pole, Leopold Infeld, collaborate? Answer: Albert einstein
Question: In what century did the Civil War take place? Answer: 19th
Question: Which sport do Vitaliy and Wladimir Klitschko practice? Answer: Boxing
Question: In which country is the bridge over the River Kwai located? Answer: Thailand
Question: In what century was French scientist André-Marie Ampère born? Answer: 18th century
Question: What is the Latin name for the surrounding ditch protecting a fortress, usually filled with water? Answer: Vallum
Question: What was the name of the first artificial satellite placed in Earth's orbit? Answer: Sputnik 1
Question: Where did Casimir Pulaski die? Answer: In the battle of
Question: What is the name of a money sign made of paper? Answer: Bill
Question: In what year did the Battle of Midway take place? Answer: 1942
Question: Which city hosted the 1928 Olympic Games, where Halina Konopacka won the gold medal? Answer: Amsterdam
Question: Who is the author of the "Kronos" diaries published in 2013? Answer: Adrian mole
Question: What is the name of the largest depression on Earth? Answer: The great rift
Question: What are the branches of the trachea called? Answer: Bronchi
Question: How many years is the term of office of the French president? Answer: 5
Question: In what year did Stanislaw Augustus initiate Thursday dinners? Answer: 1573
Question: In which country did the African National Congress fight apartheid? Answer: South africa
Question: Is Raphael Santi's painting "Sistine Madonna" in the Sistine Chapel? Answer: No
Question: In which country did Henryk Dabrowski form the Polish Legions? Answer: Russia
Question: What does the Latin "inter arma silent Musae" mean? Answer: In times of war
Question: Please provide both names of Mr. Zagloba. Answer: Zagloba and
Question: What is one of the three states of matter called besides solid and liquid? Answer: Gas
Question: Favelas are poverty districts on which continent? Answer: South America
Question: Which African country borders Algeria and Egypt? Answer: Libya
Question: Who was called the Primate of the Millennium? Answer: Jane Goodall
Question: What was the name of the party whose members met at the Convent of St. James in Paris? Answer: The Jacobins
Question: Does a prenup have to be signed in the form of a notarial deed? Answer: No
Question: The beauty of which part of the face is enhanced by mascara? Answer: Eyelashes
Question: What do we call a criminal who kidnaps people for ransom? Answer: A kidnapper
Question: What is the title of Stanislaw Lem's book on which the film "Congress" was based? Answer: Solaris
Question: What is the activity of removing the stumps of felled trees called? Answer: Stump grinding
Question: The father-in-law of which French king was Stanislas Leszczynski? Answer: Louis XV
Question: Is a canotier a hat or a tailcoat? Answer: Hat
Question: Is there a vice-pope position in the Catholic Church? Answer: Yes
Question: Can a Member of Parliament be a Senator at the same time? Answer: No
Question: Who in Greek mythology killed Hector? Answer: Achilles
Question: What city is the forbidden city, a former imperial district, located in? Answer: Beijing
Question: Which American president appears on the one-dollar bill? Answer: George washington
Question: What is the name of the Polish traveler who named Australia's highest peak Mount Kosciuszko? Answer: Jan Kosciuszko
Question: How do we write the number 70 in Roman? Answer: LXX
Question: What was the name of the Nazi who suppressed the Warsaw Ghetto uprising? Answer: Hans frank
Question: Pieter Bruegel the Elder had two sons. Please provide the name of one of them. Answer: Pieter Brue
Question: Which country is Celine Dion from? Answer: Canada
Question: Which country was Karen Blixen, author of the book "Farewell to Africa," from? Answer: Denmark
Question: What was the name of the mother of Anna Jagiellonka, wife of Stefan Batory? Answer: Jadwiga
Question: In what century was the element polonium discovered? Answer: 20th century
Question: What color are daffodil flowers? Answer: Yellow
Question: What destroyed the Colossus of Rhodes? Answer: Earthquake
Question: What does the abbreviation CMK stand for? Answer: (catholic
Question: On which continent is the tse-tse fly found? Answer: Africa
Question: He lived between 1450 and 1516, and painted "Ship of Fools" and "Garden of Earthly Delights," among other works. What was his name? Answer: Hieronymus
Question: "Diamonds are eternal" and "Greetings from Moscow". - Who is the main character of these novels? Answer: Anna karenina
Question: What was the name of the commander of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising? Answer: Mordechai An
Question: In what century did New Netherlands officially change its name to Australia? Answer: 19th
Question: How many novellas was the Decameron? Answer: 100
Question: Please complete Ignacy Krasicki's sentence: "True virtue...". Answer: Is to do what
Question: Are alcohols organic compounds? Answer: Yes
Question: In what century was the cave with the Lascaux cave paintings discovered? Answer: 1940
Question: What is the name of the basic unit of local government in Poland? Answer: Commune
Question: The creator of the painting "Lady with an Ermine" is Leonardo da Vinci. And who painted the "Lady with an Ermine"? Answer: Leonardo da Vinci
Question: In which city was a museum of curiosities established in 2001? Answer: Manchester
Question: Who in the poem came to the ladybug? Answer: The ladybird
Question: What is the name of a short-distance run? Answer: Sprint
Question: In what century did the Battle of Poitiers take place? Answer: 14th
Question: In what century was the Vienna Ferris wheel built? Answer: 19th
Question: By law, could successive elected kings in Poland have been related? Answer: Yes
Question: Which raw material is the Persian Gulf known for? Answer: Oil
Question: What occurs in the saying along with the poppy and means nothing? Answer: The corn
Question: Who, according to the proverb, is the king in the kingdom of the blind? Answer: The one-eyed
Question: Who hasn't told a woman how to sow poppies? Answer: The poppy man
Question: Who is the patron saint of hunters? Answer: St. Hubert
Question: In which city is the scene of the mob massacre in the movie "Battleship Potemkin" set? Answer: Odessa
Question: For the cinematography of which Steven Spielberg film did Polish cinematographer Janusz Kaminski receive an Oscar in 1994? Answer: Schindler's
Question: What used to be the name of a soldier on permanent duty attached to an officer? The word comes from the French. Answer: Aide-de-c
Question: In what century did Chadwick discover the neutron in the atomic nucleus? Answer: 20th century
Question: What is the name of the traditional Russian meat dumplings? Answer: Pelmeni
Question: In what modern country is Artemision, a temple in honor of Artemis, located? Answer: Turkey
Question: In old Russia, what were river workers towing barges on a rope called? Answer: Shliakht
Question: Finish the saying: "neither dog nor..."? Answer: Cat
Question: Are urchins algal cells or cricket legs? Answer: Algal cells
Question: In which city in 1971 did Gierek ask the workers: "Then how? Will you help?"? Answer: Warsaw
Question: What did the title character of Emil Zola's novel die of? Answer: Tuberculosis
Question: How many days shook the world in the title of John Reed's book about the October Revolution? Answer: 10
Question: On which continent was the first National Park established? Answer: North America
Question: Is Switzerland a member of the United Nations? Answer: Yes
Question: What was the name of the King of Prussia, the initiator of the First Partition of Poland? Answer: Frederick the great
Question: Was Anna Karenina, the heroine of Leo Tolstoy's novel, married? Answer: Yes
Question: The virtuoso of which instrument is Nigel Kennedy? Answer: Violin
