Question: Which organization was created earlier: The European Coal and Steel Community or the European Atomic Energy Community? Answer: European atomic energy community
Question: In what century was Sigismund's bell cast? Answer: 14th
Question: Are adjectives conjugated by cases? Answer: No
Question: What is the Latin name for forensic evidence that consists of showing that the accused person was not at the scene of the crime when it was committed? Answer: Alibi
Question: What is the name of the off-road Lada? Answer: Niva
Question: From which continent does 90% of the world's rice production come? Answer: Asia
Question: What are the side stripes on uniform pants called? Answer: Side stripes
Question: What was the name of the giant gorilla, the hero of Japanese films? Answer: King Kong
Question: What is the name of the single element of the staircase and the digital assessment of the student's progress? Answer: Rung
Question: Which Colombian writer born in 1927 is the author of the novel "One Hundred Years of Solitude"? Answer: Gabriel García Márquez
Question: Was inventor and politician Benjamin Franklin president of the United States? Answer: Yes
Question: The protagonist of which novel is Aramis? Answer: The three musk
Question: Who was Achilles' best friend and a participant in the Trojan War; he died at the hands of Hector? Answer: Patroclus
Question: What is the name of the rope that attaches the ship to the wharf? Answer: Mooring line
Question: What was the name of the Polish heavyweight boxer, George Foreman's opponent at the 1968 Olympics in Mexico? Answer: Zbigniew
Question: In what century is the action of "Teutonic Knights" set? Answer: 14th
Question: Who helped carry Jesus' cross on the way to Golgotha? Answer: Simon of cyrene
Question: In which ballad did Adam Mickiewicz declare: "feeling and faith speak more strongly to me than a wise man's glass and eye"? Answer:
Question: Which bird has its three days in the title of Sydney Pollack's film? Answer: Three days of the
Question: What is the name of the writer, author of "The Spectrum" and "The Deal"? Answer: John le carré
Question: When the Soviet army entered Poland in 1939, did the sides declare war on each other? Answer: No
Question: What two foods did Jesus multiply according to the New Testament? Answer: Fish and bread
Question: Which Bulgarian politician was accused of setting fire to the Reichstag? Answer: Georgi markov
Question: Is the French horn a brass or woodwind instrument? Answer: Woodwind
Question: Through which country does the Ukajali River flow? Answer: Tanzania
Question: What do we call the surrender of a criminal located in the territory of a country to the authorities of that country whose laws have been violated? Answer: Extradition
Question: What is the name of the director of the film Django? Answer: Quentin tarantino
Question: What is the name of the basic unit of mass in the SI system? Answer: Kilogram
Question: What did English mathematician Hadley invent in 1731? Answer: The Hadley's
Question: What is the name of the side wall of a boat or ship? Answer: Hull
Question: How many parts are currently in the Indiana Jones adventure saga with Harrison Ford? Answer: 4
Question: What is it called to make amendments or additions to existing laws? Answer: Amending
Question: What was the name of Zenon Laskowik and Bohdan Smolen's cabaret? Answer: The little theatre
Question: Which symphony is the "Ode to Joy" from? Answer: 9th
Question: The area of which figure is calculated by squaring the length of its side? Answer: Square
Question: Which country was called the Middle Kingdom? Answer: China
Question: A citizen of which country was the protagonist of William Shakespeare's famous drama Prince Hamlet? Answer: Denmark
Question: Which Polish sculptor was the creator of the Frederic Chopin monument in the Lazienki Park in Warsaw? Answer: Jan Matejko
Question: Did Elvis Presley live to be 40? Answer: No
Question: Who elected the president according to the March Constitution? Answer: The electoral college
Question: On the territory of which two countries is Lake Titicaca located? Answer: Peru and bolivia
Question: In which famous sea bath was Louis de Funès the gendarme? Answer: The gendarme at
Question: What is the name of an ice yacht equipped with sharp skids? Answer: Ice boat
Question: How many drivers per car in the 24 Hours of Le Mans race? Answer: Two
Question: What religion is the majority of Liechtenstein's population? Answer: Roman Catholicism
Question: What is the name of the branch of geology that deals with the study of the structure and movements of the earth's crust? Answer: Tectonics
Question: Against whom was an organization called the Prussian Union founded in Kwidzyn in 1440? Answer: Poland
Question: What is the name of the highest peak in the Tatra Mountains? Answer: Rysy
Question: What is the name of the newspaper that can be read on the TV screen? Answer: The telegraph
Question: Are penalty shots taken in ice hockey? Answer: Yes
Question: Polydactyly is a developmental defect involving an excessive number of what? Answer: Fingers or
Question: Who initiated and organized the first modern Olympic Games? Answer: Pierre de coubert
Question: What is the name of the animal with magnificent, branching horns that lives in the Arctic and is harnessed to Santa's sleigh in the fairy tale? Answer: Reindeer
Question: According to Polish terminology, how many millions does a trillion consist of? Answer: Three
Question: How many strings does a classical guitar have? Answer: 6
Question: Did the cuirassiers fight on foot or on horseback? Answer: On foot
Question: Under natural conditions, is fluorine a gas or a liquid? Answer: Gas
Question: Three goddesses competed for the golden apple: Athena, Aphrodite and...? Answer: Hera
Question: Were Christopher Columbus and Vasco da Gama born in the same country? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of the alkaloid used to dilate the pupil? Answer: Atropine
Question: Mohair is a soft wool that comes from which animals? Answer: Angora goats
Question: What was the name of the large farm, which previously used the labor of serf peasants and, since the 19th century, hired labor? Answer: Manor
Question: What was the name of St. John the Baptist's mother? Answer: Elizabeth
Question: Is the comedy "Maiden Vows" by Alexander Fredro written in prose or in verse? Answer: Verse
Question: What mushrooms did Wojski pick in "Pan Tadeusz"? Answer: Chanterelles
Question: Which ruler brought the body of St. Adalbert to Gniezno? Answer: Boleslaw Ch
Question: What kind of peat has medicinal properties? Answer: Sphagnum
Question: What do we call the crime of buying an item that comes from theft? Answer: Receiving stolen goods
Question: What was the name given to Tatar troops separated from the orda and carrying out raids into enemy territory? Answer: The tatar hor
Question: Which bicycle wheel was bigger: the front or the rear? Answer: Front
Question: We traveled 80 kilometers in 2 hours. At what speed did we travel? Answer: 40 km/h
Question: From which country does strong port wine originate? Answer: Portugal
Question: What is the name of the author of the novel "The Godfather"? Answer: Mario puzo
Question: What does the Mercalli scale measure: wind strength or earthquake strength? Answer: Earthquake strength
Question: Whose name is the Lodz Philharmonic named after? Answer: Stanislaw Monius
Question: Which weapon used in sports fencing is the heaviest? Answer: Foil
Question: Who commanded the "Polesie" operational group, which fought the last battle of the September campaign at Kock on 6.10.1939? Answer: General von paulus
Question: What is the name of the walking boat used to transport people and goods on the canals of Venice? Answer: Gondola
Question: What do we call the temporary deprivation of liberty of a suspect before his case is tried in court? Answer: Detention
Question: Wellington is the capital of which country? Answer: New Zealand
Question: On the border of how many European countries lies Lake Constance? Answer: 3
Question: Was the Parthenon on the Acropolis counted among the seven wonders of the world? Answer: Yes
Question: Which artist is the Kraków cultural institution Cricoteka dedicated to? Answer: Chagall
Question: Was Maria Walewska the wife of Napoleon? Answer: No
Question: What was the name of the first nuclear-powered submarine launched in the U.S. in 1954? Answer: Nautilus
Question: Was the Falcon a firearm or a white weapon? Answer: Firearm
Question: Who wrote "The Mudbloods" and "The Persians"? Answer: Evelyn waugh
Question: If the term of the Diet is shortened, is the term of the Senate also shortened? Answer: No
Question: In the 1930s, a building was built in New York that was for a long time the tallest in the world. What is it called? Answer: Empire state building
Question: On which great river did the state of the Pharaohs develop? Answer: The nile
Question: Who was the First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Polish United Workers' Party when the construction of the Katowice Steel Plant began? Answer: Edward biern
Question: Which of the great composers lost his hearing and yet still created and even sometimes performed as a conductor? Answer: Beethoven
Question: What is the name of a crime committed under the influence of strong agitation? Answer: Passion crime
Question: The word occident is one word or two words? Answer: One
Question: What is the name of the tiny grooves on the skin of the fingers, unique to each person? Answer: Dermatoglyph
Question: Taiga is characterized by a predominance of coniferous or deciduous trees? Answer: Deciduous
Question: Which plant in the Lord Thaddeus invocation was blazing its maiden flush? Answer: Poppy
Question: Which Polish woman won a gold and bronze medal at the Atlanta Olympics in rifle shooting? Answer: Danuta radzio
Question: Who was the father of Boleslaw III the Wrymouth? Answer: Boleslaw II
Question: What is the current name of the largest city on the east coast of North America, founded under the name of New Amsterdam? Answer: New york
Question: In which province is Torun located? Answer: Ontario
Question: In what sport did Grazyna Rabsztyn set world records? Answer: Pole vault
Question: What is the name of the box with a hole into which ballots are dropped? Answer: Ballot box
Question: What is the name of Britain's first female prime minister? Answer: Margaret thatcher
Question: What kind of people inhabited and inhabit the White Forest? Answer: Slavs
Question: Which animal family does the llama belong to? Answer: Camelidae
Question: In what century did Sophocles live? Answer: 5th century bce
Question: Which European capital city has a Tivoli funfair? Answer: Copenhagen
Question: Which color was used to name the sea that is part of the Arctic Ocean? Answer: Blue
Question: In which country was paper invented? Answer: China
Question: What is a morbid fear of fire called? Answer: Pyrophobia
Question: Does Greenpeace operate in Poland? Answer: Yes
Question: In what year was the production of the Fiat 126p passenger car started in Bielsko-Biala - the 1970s or the 1980s? Answer: The 1970s
Question: Which European city is home to the Real and Atletico soccer clubs? Answer: Madrid
Question: What title, derived from the name of a miner from the Donetsk Basin, was given to a labor leader in the Soviet Union? Answer: Miner
Question: What is the name of the longest left tributary of the Vistula River? Answer: The river Nare
Question: Which Italian sprinter was the world record holder in the 200-meter run for many years? Answer: Pietro mennea
Question: Is Douglas fir a deciduous or a coniferous tree? Answer: Deciduous
Question: In which industry did Krakow-born Helena Rubinstein achieve great success - computer, film or cosmetics? Answer: Cosmetics
Question: How many times has Uruguay been world soccer champion? Answer: 2
Question: Were the Juvenalia held in ancient Rome? Answer: Yes
Question: Is the epilogue the end of the work or its introduction? Answer: The end
Question: How many volumes does Wladyslaw Reymont's novel "The Peasants" consist of? Answer: Three
Question: In which city stands the residence of the Presidents of the United States - the White House? Answer: Washington
Question: What is the common name of a military subdivision and a bird of the snipe family? Answer: Covey
Question: In what century did Edward Jenner invent the smallpox vaccine? Answer: 18th century
Question: In which U.S. state are San Diego and San Francisco located? Answer: California
Question: Hypothermia is a condition of decreased or increased body temperature? Answer: Decreased
Question: In what century did the first trial at the International Criminal Court in The Hague begin? Answer: 20th
Question: Where was the French fleet sunk in 1942 to prevent the Germans from taking it over? Answer: Toulon
Question: What was the name of Gomulka, the first secretary of the PZPR? Answer: Edward
Question: In what year did the Nazis arrest the first Home Army Commander-in-Chief Stefan Rowecki, alias "Grot"? Answer: 1939
Question: What is the name of the Warsaw Stock Exchange's economic indicator? Answer: WIG
Question: What is the name of the Polish director of the films "Interrogation", "Closed Circuit", "General Nil"? Answer: Krzyszto
Question: In which country are the Nobel literary prizes awarded each year? Answer: Sweden
Question: From which dynasty is the current king of Spain descended? Answer: House of Bourbon
Question: In what century was Italy unified? Answer: 19th
Question: Who was the winner of the Olympic gold medal in the men's high jump in 1976 in Montreal? Answer: Dick fosbury
Question: What was the name of the currency in effect in the Second Republic before Grabski's reform and the introduction of the zloty? Answer: Polish zloty
Question: Who is the author of the novel on which the film "The Great Gatsby" was based? Answer: F scott f
Question: What is the name of a tall coniferous tree, in ancient Rome considered a symbol of mourning? Answer: Cypress
Question: Is the Bessemer pear edible? Answer: Yes
Question: What does Claude Monet's painting "Impression" depict: sunrise or sunset? Answer: Sunrise
Question: An unattainable, unrealistic thing is pears on what? Answer: Plums
Question: Is the bassoon a low or high scale instrument? Answer: Low
Question: Was the production of Warsaw passenger cars started before or after World War II? Answer: Before
Question: What do we call the luminous wrapping around divine or holy figures in Christian art? Answer: Halo
Question: Is the planet Mercury larger than Earth? Answer: No
Question: What was the function of the Duke of Wellington, Napoleon's conqueror, in England in 1828-30? Answer: Prime Minister
Question: Was the Wolf, a Polish warship, a submarine or a torpedo boat? Answer: Submarine
Question: A wish that seems unreal is pious or impious? Answer: Pious
Question: Which city is called the City of Seven Hills? Answer: Rome
Question: What is the absolute value of the number -9? Answer: 9
Question: What weapon - besides fire - appears in the title of the historical film with Michal Zebrowski? Answer: Gunpowder
Question: In which city does the Zlote Tarasy shopping and entertainment complex operate? Answer: Warsaw
Question: In what year was the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) established? Answer: 1949
Question: Who wrote the satire entitled. "The Fashionable Wife?" Answer: Jane Austen
Question: What did the brothers Simon and Andrew do before they became apostles? Answer: Fishermen
Question: What was the former name of the cart used to carry artillery ammunition? Answer: Caisson
Question: In what year did the movements known as the Spring of Nations begin in Europe? Answer: 1848
Question: What is the name of the part of an electronic instrument used to feed or discharge charge carriers? Answer: Cathode
Question: What is the liquid part of the blood without blood cells called? Answer: Plasma
Question: How many pillars of faith is Islam based on? Answer: Five
Question: Has the International Atomic Energy Agency been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize? Answer: Yes
Question: In Arabic tales, how does the spell that opens the door to the vault sound? Answer: Open sesame
Question: Does Latvia belong to NATO? Answer: Yes
Question: What flower did the Little Prince care for? Answer: The rose
Question: Who composed the music for the ballet "The Sleeping Beauty" based on Charles Perrault's fairy tale? Answer: Tchaikovsky
Question: Who developed the Periodic Table of Elements? Answer: Dmitri mendeleev
Question: Who gave his life for Franciszek Gajowniczek? Answer: Maximilian kolbe
Question: Did the so-called bench ghettos take place in high schools or universities? Answer: Universities
Question: What was the full name of the underground organization using the acronym WIN, formed in 1945 in Poland? Answer: Workers' militia
Question: In what year was the thousandth anniversary of the Baptism of Poland? Answer: 966
Question: A Martian day is shorter or longer than an Earth day? Answer: Longer
Question: Which city is the capital of Tunisia? Answer: Tunis
Question: At what age was Horatio Nelson born? Answer: Horatio Nelson was
Question: Did Polish astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus have a doctorate? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the root of the third degree of eight? Answer: 2
Question: In linguistics, what is an allusive phrase used to replace an overly drastic and blunt word called? Answer: Euphemism
Question: Which instrument is Jan Ptaszyn Wroblewski known for playing? Answer: Cello
Question: Are auxins the growth hormones of plants or animals? Answer: Plants
Question: Which is the highest French decoration established by Napoleon in 1802 that is awarded to military and civilian individuals? Answer: Legion of honor
Question: What was the name of the New Zealand Himalayan who became the first man to climb the world's highest peak, Mount Everest, in 1953? Answer: Edmund hilary
Question: Under an agreement with which country did Poland in the 1980s start building a subway in the capital? Answer: Russia
Question: What was the name of the last king of Poland from the Vasa dynasty? Answer: Stanislaw ii
Question: Which insects did Tadeusz Soplica remove from Telimena's cleavage in "Pan Tadeusz"? Answer: Beetles
Question: What was the name of a legendary Swiss hero from the period of the struggle for independence against the Habsburgs in the 14th century? Answer: William tell
Question: Which instrument is musician Zbigniew Namysłowski known for playing? Answer: Piano
Question: Which part of the warrior's body was shielded by the helmet? Answer: Head
Question: Which band created hit songs such as "Satisfaction" and "Paint it black"? Answer: Rolling stones
Question: Is ammonia a liquid or a gas? Answer: A gas
Question: Is DNA a carrier of genetic information? Answer: Yes
Question: A 1:2 scale drawing means it is scaled down or enlarged? Answer: Enlarged
Question: What is the name of the currency used in Thailand? Answer: Baht
Question: Which very famous singer sang "Remember, it was autumn"? Answer: Simon and garf
Question: The 30-foot statue of Christ on Corcovado Hill is a landmark of which city? Answer: Rio de Janeiro
Question: A very hard mineral, alumina, is an oxide of which element? Answer: Aluminium
Question: What animal is called the Toddler in "Winnie the Pooh"? Answer: Piglet
Question: In what country lies the Somme River, famous for the battle in which tanks were first used? Answer: France
Question: Syria is counted as a Far Eastern or Middle Eastern country? Answer: Middle Eastern
Question: How many letters of St. Peter does the New Testament contain? Answer: Two
Question: How many companions were in the title of Remarque's novel? Answer: Three
Question: What does LOP stand for? Answer: Local operating procedure
Question: What was the name of the first pope? Answer: St. peter
Question: Under what pseudonym does the rock music star, whose real name is Luiza Veronica Ciccone, perform? Answer: Madonna
Question: What are the salts of nitric acid called? Answer: Nitrates
Question: What nationality was St. Teresa of the Child Jesus? Answer: French
Question: In which cemetery is Boleslaw Prus buried? Answer: Krakow
Question: In which sport did the brothers Kazimierz and Jozef Lipieni perform? Answer: Gymnastics
Question: What is the Polish name for glaucoma, an eye disease? Answer: Głowa
Question: Is Greece a republic or a monarchy? Answer: Republic
Question: Who was the first, the president of Israel? Answer: Chaim weiz
Question: In Buddhism and Hinduism, what is the sum of a person's good deeds called that determines the nature of the next incarnation in the chain of reincarnation? Answer: Karma
Question: Which tsar abolished peasant serfdom in Russia? Answer: Alexander ii
Question: Which Polish writer created 232 novels? Answer: Henryk Sien
Question: Which Polish city is a winter sports center, located at the foot of Skrzyczne and Klimczok? Answer: Zakopane
Question: Who is the author of the three laws of dynamics? Answer: Isaac newton
Question: Under what name is known the Polish actress and singer, a popular star of the 1930s - Maria Anna of Pietruszyńska Tyszkiewiczowa? Answer: Maria callas
Question: What was the name of the last king of Poland from the Jagiellonian dynasty? Answer: Stanislaw ii
Question: In which Polish mountains is the Krakow Gorge located? Answer: Tatras
Question: Who is the author of the historical work "Poland of the Piasts"? Answer: Jan Długos
Question: In what year did Lech Walesa receive the Nobel Peace Prize? Answer: 1983
Question: What is the expropriation to the state of basic means of production, such as factories, banks, land, called? Answer: Nationalisation
Question: Was World War I won by the states gathered in the Triple Alliance or the Tri-Agreement? Answer: Triple Alliance
Question: Which instrument is Kaja Danczowska known for playing? Answer: Cello
Question: "Hamlet," "Macbeth," "King Lear" - are any of these Shakespeare plays not tragedies? Answer: Hamlet
Question: Does the Ural River flow into the Caspian Sea? Answer: No
Question: Are the Galapagos and the Turtle Islands the same island group? Answer: No
Question: The shadow of which bird appears in the title of Varius Manx's hit song? Answer: Robin
Question: In the Bieszczady Mountains, the borders of three countries - which ones besides Poland - converge at one point? Answer: Ukraine, Belarus,
Question: In 1967, Cape Town surgeon Christiaan Barnard performed a groundbreaking operation. What did it involve? Answer: Heart transplant
Question: What is the name of the phenomenal Hungarian boxer who won the Olympic title three times? Answer: Teofilo ste
Question: The ruler of which state was Emperor Diocletian? Answer: Rome
Question: What is the name of a variety of brass containing up to 20% zinc (the rest is copper), with a golden color, used, among other things, to make inexpensive jewelry? Answer: Pinchbeck
Question: In which language did Herodotus write his "Histories"? Answer: Greek
Question: In which city does the Florian Gate, built in the Middle Ages, stand? Answer: Venice
Question: Are a noun and a verb parts of a sentence? Answer: Yes
Question: From which country does emmental cheese originate? Answer: Switzerland
Question: Is Shimon Peres a Nobel laureate? Answer: Yes
Question: How many legs does a crawfish have? Answer: 8
Question: What was the name of Tadeusz Kantor's theater? Answer: Teatr lalek
Question: Which camel has more humps - the dromedary or the bactrian? Answer: Dromedary
Question: What is the name of the Polish director who created the films "Róża", "Drogówka" and "Dom zły"? Answer: Roman polanski
Question: Who is the director of the American film "Jurassic Park"? Answer: Steven spielberg
Question: From which dynasty was King Louis XVI of France descended? Answer: Bourbon
Question: Please provide the date of the WTC attack. Answer: 2001
Question: What was the name of the most outstanding sculptor of antiquity, the author of, among other things, the statue of Athena on the Acropolis? Answer: Phidias
Question: Was the Battle of Salamis by land or by sea? Answer: Sea
Question: In which city does the Helena Modrzejewska Old Theater operate? Answer: Krakow
Question: What is the Polish equivalent of the term "Renaissance"? Answer: Renascence
Question: In what year did the October Revolution take place in Russia? Answer: 1917
Question: Carved into the rock, was the Gemonian Staircase part of ancient Rome or Athens? Answer: Rome
Question: Nigeria and Niger are different names for the same country in Africa or two different countries? Answer: Nigeria and Niger are
Question: The capital of which country is the city of Caracas? Answer: Venezuela
Question: What is the title of Andrzej Wajda's first feature film? Answer: Kanal
Question: Can the absolute value of a number be negative? Answer: Yes
Question: Which city was the first headquarters of the international police organization Interpol? Answer: Paris
Question: From which country is Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Nobel Prize for Literature winner and author of "One Hundred Years of Solitude"? Answer: Colombia
Question: A representative of which profession performs perms? Answer: Hairdresser
Question: What is the name of the attire worn by judges and attorneys during a court hearing? Answer: Robe
Question: What is the name of a double-hulled boat? Answer: Catamaran
Question: Which marine animals of the semiaquatic type lived from the Cambrian to the Carboniferous? Answer: Sea lilies
Question: Which vitamin deficiency is caused by scurvy? Answer: C
Question: What is the name of the lake in Scotland where the monster allegedly lives? Answer: Loch ness
Question: What is the name of the State Song and Dance Ensemble founded in 1948 by Tadeusz Sygietyński? Answer: Polish ballet
Question: Vespa is a brand of Italian scooters and the Italian name for which insect? Answer: Wasp
Question: How many square meters does a square kilometer contain? Answer: One million
Question: What officer rank is higher than captain but lower than lieutenant colonel? Answer: Major
Question: What does the English saying "pure nonsense" mean? Answer: Meaningless
Question: The capital of which country is Khartoum? Answer: Sudan
Question: On which island is the Dominican Republic located? Answer: Hispaniola
Question: Where is the grave of Prince Joseph Poniatowski located? Answer: St. Petersburg
Question: On which continent is Coppola's "Apocalypse Now" set? Answer: South America
Question: How many coordinates does it take to determine the position of a point on the plane? Answer: Two
Question: Which continent is the smallest? Answer: Australia
Question: In which state is Cape Canaveral, the main U.S. space training ground, located? Answer: Florida
Question: Where did Darius the Great of the Akhmenid dynasty establish his capital? Answer: Susa
Question: Is algae an algae? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of the South American ostrich? Answer: Rhea
Question: In chess, what is the sacrifice of a pawn or figure for a better position called? Answer: Gambit
Question: Which plant is the symbol of Scotland? Answer: Thistle
Question: What is the Latin name for the period between the date a piece of legislation is promulgated and the date it comes into effect? Answer: Vacatio legis
Question: What is the title of Molière's comedy, whose main character's name was Harpagon? Answer: The misanthrope
Question: In what age was Witold Gombrowicz born? Answer: 1904
Question: What is the name of the science that deals with the study of the cultures of different peoples? Answer: Anthropology
Question: In what year was the Polish government-in-exile transferred from France to Great Britain? Answer: 1939
Question: Which order is hidden under the acronym SJ? Answer: Sisters
Question: Which Beethoven symphony ends with "Ode to Joy"? Answer: 9th
Question: According to the proverb, what do we pore over in the sun with? Answer: A book
Question: In which field is the Pritzker Prize awarded? Answer: Architecture
Question: What was the name of the Roman counterpart of the god of the art of medicine, worshipped by the Greeks under the name Asklepios? Answer: Aesculapi
Question: Whose captivity do the English soldiers in the movie "Bridge on the River Kwai" get into? Answer: The Japanese
Question: In which month of 1825 did the armed uprising of the Decabrists break out in Russia? Answer: December
Question: The capital of which country is Abu Dhabi? Answer: United Arab Emirates
Question: What was the name of the main direction of medieval Christian philosophy characterized by an effort to prove the validity of religious dogmas by reason? Answer: Scholasticism
Question: What is included in Israel's emblem? Answer: Star of David
Question: Is there a separate Welsh language? Answer: Yes
Question: Within which countries do the Pyrenees Mountains rise? Answer: France and Spain
Question: What do we call the boulders brought by the ice sheets? Answer: Boulder
Question: What does the Italian term salto mortale mean in literal translation? Answer: Death leap
Question: What is the English name for a dense urban fog containing exhaust particles? Answer: Smog
Question: How many lobes does the human liver consist of? Answer: Four
Question: What do we call the graph of the tangent function? Answer: Tangent
Question: What is the name of the religious songs of American Negroes, one of the sources of the blues, which were initially performed only during church services before becoming independent in the 1930s? Answer: Spirituals
Question: What was the name of the 1882 political-military alliance between Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy, which fell apart after 1915 after Italy joined the Entente? Answer: Triple alliance
Question: What nationality was Ernesto Guevara? Answer: Argentine
Question: What was the unemployment benefit colloquially called, after the politician? Answer: The dole
Question: What is the science of means and methods of detecting crime called? Answer: Criminology
Question: What is the name of thin wrinkled decorative paper, a type of tissue paper? Answer: Crepe paper
Question: Who is trying to write a letter to Waclaw in "The Revenge" under the dictation of Cześnik? Answer: Waclaw
Question: In what century did the French writer George Sand live? Answer: 19th century
Question: What does the Latin "primum non nocere" mean? Answer: First do no harm
Question: Am license to drive a moped, streetcar or trolleybus? Answer: Class D
Question: Which process must oil undergo to obtain useful products from it? Answer: Refining
Question: Was Jude Thaddeus an apostle of Jesus? Answer: Yes
Question: Who sang the song "Diana" in 1957? Answer: Paul anka
Question: What is the name of a device that draws with a pen, an alternative to a computer printer? Answer: Stylus
Question: The sulfide of which metal is galena? Answer: Lead
Question: From which drama by Gabriela Zapolska the quote comes: "I do not take such money for myself, I pay taxes with it"? Answer: The treasury
Question: Marquetry is the art of lining wooden surfaces with a pattern of which material? Answer: Wood
Question: Was the Hindenburg with the designation LZ-129 a German warship? Answer: No
Question: What do we call the player of the main role in a Greek drama? Answer: Hero
Question: What dance, introduced into the operetta by Jacob Offenbach, aroused admiration among men, but also widespread scorn? Answer:
Question: How many contestants are taking part in the third stage of the quiz show "One of Ten"? Answer: Ten
Question: Of how many 20-minute parts does an ice hockey game consist? Answer: Three
Question: How many cooks are there where there is nothing to eat? Answer: One
Question: What is the name of the longest mountain range in the world? Answer: Andes
Question: What is the name of a hereditary disease involving a blood clotting disorder? Answer: Haemophilia
Question: Where is the seat of the International Court of Justice located? Answer: The hague
Question: What is the name of the pigment found in skin, iris, hair? Answer: Melanin
Question: What color is the maple leaf on the Canadian flag? Answer: Red
Question: What did the Minotaur, locked in the labyrinth, feed on? Answer: Human beings
Question: What is the name of the mausoleum where the most prominent representatives of art, culture and science are buried at St. Peter's Church in Krakow? Answer: The tomb of the
Question: The name of which international organization has the abbreviation WHO? Answer: World health organisation
Question: What is the name of the document stating that insurance has been taken out? Answer: Policy
Question: Who introduced the concept of energy quanta? Answer: Max planck
Question: Is internal medicine a hospital infectious disease unit Answer: No
Question: In tennis and volleyball, what is the ball called touching the net while serving? Answer: Net
Question: On the street of which city does the main character of Boris Pasternak's novel "Doctor Zhivago" die? Answer: Moscow
Question: What is the name of the Central Bank in Poland? Answer: Bank Polski
Question: What is the name of the clergyman who performs pastoral duties in the army, prison, hospital? Answer: Chaplain
Question: Greenland is an autonomous part of which country? Answer: Denmark
Question: Does the Neman River flow through Poland? Answer: No
Question: What is the diminutive male name for the pillow in the bedroom? Answer: Pill
Question: Into which river does the Lusatian Neisse River flow? Answer: The Oder
Question: In which country is the city of Pamplona located? Answer: Spain
Question: What city is Adam Malysz from? Answer: Warsaw
Question: What was the name of an American jazz trumpeter and singer who lived from 1901-71? Answer: Louis armstrong
Question: Which waves can propagate in a vacuum: sound or radio? Answer: Radio
Question: What is the name of a document issued by a doctor, which constitutes an order for the dispensing or preparation of a drug by a pharmacy? Answer: Prescription
Question: What was the name of The Animals' biggest hit, which is a poignant version of an old American folk song? Answer: House of the rising
Question: Which saint was the mother of John the Baptist? Answer: Elizabeth
Question: Which country is Maria Sharapova from? Answer: Russia
Question: How did Socrates die? Answer: He was poisoned
Question: What is the name of the journalist, columnist, founder and editor of "Life and Modernity," president of SDP? Answer: John Pilger
Question: In which country did Urho Kekkonen serve as prime minister and later as president? Answer: Finland
Question: What is the name of the successor to the sailing ship "Dar Pomorza"? Answer: Dar Pomorza
Question: What was the codename of the U.S. project to create an atomic bomb during World War II? Answer: Manhattan project
Question: How many liters is one cubic decimeter? Answer: 1,000
Question: What is the name of the facility to care for the terminally ill? Answer: Hospice
Question: Which city is the seat of the Swedish royal court? Answer: Stockholm
Question: In which month is the Earth closest to the Sun? Answer: January
Question: In what year did the Polish national soccer team win 3rd place at the World Cup in Spain under the leadership of Antoni Piechniczek? Answer: 1982
Question: Tortilla - a type of thick omelet with various toppings - is a specialty of which country? Answer: Mexico
Question: Which ocean is the smallest: the Atlantic, Pacific or Indian? Answer: Atlantic
Question: What color does litmus color in acidic solution? Answer: Red
Question: From which language is the unit of area "morga" derived? Answer: Arabic
Question: Who played the role of Matthew Birkut in "Man of Marble" and "Man of Iron"? Answer: Richard harris
Question: What instrument did Louis Armstrong play? Answer: Trumpet
Question: With whom did the Polish national team play the final match in soccer at the Munich Olympics? Answer: Hungary
Question: Is the Vltava River a tributary of the Elbe River? Answer: No
Question: What kind of animal was the Behemoth from the novel The Master and Margarita? Answer: Bear
Question: How many degrees is the boiling point of water on the Fahrenheit scale? Answer: 212 degrees
Question: What is the name of the traveler who was the first to reach India by sea from Europe? Answer: Vasco da gama
Question: On which special night once a year does a fern bloom? Answer: Lammas
Question: Which pope in the 20th century ruled the Church for only 33 days? Answer: John paul i
Question: What do we call a set of rules for using punctuation marks? Answer: Punctuation
Question: Which country boasted a navy called the Grand Armada? Answer: Spain
Question: Czubatka is a Polish breed of hen or duck? Answer: Hen
Question: Which branch of medicine deals with pediatric diseases? Answer: Paediatrics
Question: Do mushrooms contain chlorophyll? Answer: No
Question: What was the name of the scientific program led by Andrzej Kurek and Zdzislaw Kaminski? Answer: The Polish Academy of
Question: Who played against the hosts in the final match in the 1978 World Cup in Argentina? Answer: Netherlands
Question: What was the name of the Roman water supply? Answer: Aqua Virgo
Question: What is the name of the form of security for repayment of debt on real estate? Answer: Mortgage
Question: What do we call exchanging old currency for new currency? Answer: Changing money
Question: Tritium is the radioactive isotope of which element? Answer: Hydrogen
Question: What does a named judgment consist of? Answer: A judgment and a
Question: Which philosophical direction assumes that true knowledge of reality is based on experience? Answer: Empiricism
Question: Was Winston Churchill prime minister of Great Britain after World War II? Answer: Yes
Question: Was Enrico Caruso a famous bass or tenor? Answer: Tenor
Question: What is the name of the geological unit of time in the history of the Earth, which is part of a period and divided into centuries? Answer: Millenium
Question: Who is the author of the tragedy entitled. "Seven against Thebes"? Answer: Sophocles
Question: How many dots does the polygon contain? Answer: 6
Question: On the occasion of what event did Joseph Verdi compose the opera "Aida"? Answer: The opening of the
Question: Are Satyr and Satyr mythical spouses? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of the studio of the sculptor, painter? Answer: The louvre
Question: What is the title of John Ehrlichman's book that describes the events surrounding the Watergate affair? Answer: All the president's
Question: What was the person pumping air into the organ bellows called? Answer: The bellows bl
Question: In which competition was Waldemar Baszanowski a multiple record holder? Answer: Pole vault
Question: In which field have Polish Nobel laureates received the most awards? Answer: Physics
Question: Which animal is staring at the painted gates? Answer: Lion
Question: How do you read a Roman numeral written as CCC? Answer: Three hundred
Question: Who do Latinos contemptuously call a gringo? Answer: A wetback
Question: What instrument did the lovely instrumentalist in the Skalds' song play? Answer: Harp
Question: Who is the director of the movie "Seven Samurai"? Answer: Akira kurosa
Question: The chairman of which party was Aleksander Kwasniewski until he became president? Answer: Polish United Workers'
Question: In what century was Justinian's code written? Answer: 5th century
Question: Which part of speech - adjective, participle, or adverb - is conjugated by cases? Answer: Adjective
Question: Which short story by Joseph Conrad features Kurtz and Marlow? Answer: Heart of darkness
Question: Which Western European capital is the headquarters of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, or UNESCO? Answer: Paris
Question: In which city is "Promised Land" set? Answer: New york
Question: What is the name of the longtime TV weather presenter, popularly known as "Wicherk"? Answer: Michael Fish
Question: What was the name of the Soviet original fighter plane built in Poland under the name LIM? Answer: LaGG
Question: What is the name of the Polish representative who won an Olympic gold medal in sailing in the Finn class? Answer: Zbigniew
Question: The military decoration Cross of Valor was established in Poland before or after World War II? Answer: Before
Question: By playing which instrument did Wanda Wiłkomirska gain fame? Answer: Cello
Question: What is the name of brothers who lived in the late 18th and early 19th centuries, of whom John was a mathematician and Jedrzej was a chemist? Answer: Watt
Question: With the fleet of which country did the Poles fight at the Battle of Oliva? Answer: Russia
Question: To pay like grain is to pay too little or too much? Answer: To pay too little
Question: If we move 10 km/h, in how many minutes will we cover 15 km? Answer: 15 minutes
Question: Which ancient physician lived earlier: Galen or Hippocrates? Answer: Hippocrates
Question: Which country hosted the 2018 Winter Olympics? Answer: South korea
Question: What do we call a series of groups of organisms arranged in such an order that each preceding one is the food base for the next? Answer: Food chain
Question: What was the name of Monica's frog friend, the protagonist of the popular program "Ciuchcia" in the 1990s? Answer: Mrs. Kiki
Question: In which country is the city of Salzburg located? Answer: Austria
Question: What can happen according to the lyrics of Anita Lipnicka's hit song? Answer: You can get a
Question: There were three wars between Rome and Carthage called the Punic Wars. Which of them ended in victory for Carthage? Answer: Second Punic War
Question: Blue helmets are a popular name for EU, NATO or UN peacekeepers? Answer: Yes
Question: Which director and long-time director is named after the Powszechny Theater in Warsaw? Answer: Andrzej Wajda
Question: What is the frequency of the AC power grid in Poland? Answer: 50 hertz
Question: Does the wasp's stinger fit in the front or back of its body? Answer: Back
Question: What was the service rank of Slawomir Borewicz, the protagonist of "07 report"? Answer: Major
Question: A favorable attitude toward which country does a Germanophile have? Answer: Germany
Question: What else do we call the Ten Commandments, which are the basis of Jewish and Christian morality, according to the Bible revealed to Moses on Mount Sinai? Answer: The law
Question: What is the name of the agrotechnical action of placing seeds at a certain depth, in the top layer of soil, as evenly spaced as possible, and covering them with soil? Answer: Sowing
Question: What is the name of Hermaszewski, the first Polish cosmonaut? Answer: Aleksander
Question: With whom, under the command of Prince Józef Poniatowski, did the Polish army fight in the Battle of Raszyn? Answer: The Prussians
Question: On which continent was the land of Eldorado supposed to be located? Answer: South america
Question: From which country did the Order of Pauline Fathers come to Poland? Answer: Italy
Question: In what year was the Yalta conference held? Answer: 1945
Question: Who, according to the Gospel of St. John, said of Christ: "Behold the man"? Answer: Pontius pilate
Question: What is the exchange of one commodity for another without the use of money called? Answer: Barter
Question: Which river is Tomaszów Mazowiecki located on? Answer: Vistula
Question: Which country was the first to enact a constitution? Answer: The united states
Question: The measure of what in old Poland was a włóka? Answer: A pound
Question: Which element has the chemical symbol Ra? Answer: Radium
Question: What is the name of the passive element of an electric circuit whose main physical property is electrical resistance? Answer: Resistor
Question: Does the pole vault belong in the decathlon? Answer: No
Question: What color was the Phrygian cap? Answer: Red
Question: How many quintals is a ton? Answer: 100
Question: Euripides' "The Bacchantes" is a tragedy, comedy or mystery? Answer: Tragedy
Question: What was the name of the hero whose mother was Alkena? Answer: Hercules
Question: Is the tenor a male or female voice? Answer: Male
Question: By which sea is Tel Aviv located? Answer: The Mediterranean
Question: What do we call determining the age of materials using the laws of radioactive decay, such as the 12C and 14C carbon isotope method? Answer: Radiometric dating
Question: At the Battle of Kircholm in 1605, the Swedish army was defeated by the Polish army led by whom? Answer: John zapolya
Question: How many medals at the Athens Games did Otylia Jedrzejczak win? Answer: Two
Question: Which quiz show has been hosted by Karol Strasburger since 1994? Answer: Mastermind
Question: What was the name of a productive farm in the USSR, farming on state land given for free use to an agricultural cooperative? Answer: Kolkhoz
Question: In which religion are the most important holidays the Feast of the End of Fasting and the Feast of Sacrifices? Answer: Islam
Question: What nationality was St. John Bosco? Answer: Italian
Question: What nationality was the famous composer Aram Khachaturian? Answer: Armenian
Question: In which country is the city of Toulon, once a Greek colony, then part of the Roman Empire? Answer: France
Question: Where in Moscow is the tsar can and the tsar kolokol located? Answer: The Kremlin
Question: Was Sweden neutral during World War II? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the ancestral organization of a society in which the male has a dominant role? Answer: Patriarchy
Question: In which city is the Dominican fair held? Answer: Santo domingo
Question: Podgórze and Prądnik - which districts of which city? Answer: Warsaw
Question: What was the name of the Polish representative who won the Olympic title in equestrianism at the Moscow Olympics? Answer: Janusz Kusoc
Question: What was intended for warriors on foot - a kick or a pika? Answer: Pika
Question: What was the bravery in the title of Mel Gibson's 1996 Academy Award-winning film? Answer: Braveheart
Question: What is the highest military rank given in the Polish army since 1920? Answer: General
Question: What does the word gospel, which comes from the Greek, mean? Answer: Good news
Question: Which Polish writer received the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1980? Answer: Wislawa s
Question: The rapidly developing countries of Asia are said to be which Asian predators? Answer: Tigers
Question: What is the word for carbon monoxide (CO)? Answer: Carbon monoxide
Question: From which airport did General Sikorski take off on his last flight? Answer: Warsaw
Question: Which Polish and Hungarian hero was also known by the name of Murad Pasha? Answer: John Hunyadi
Question: Who reached the South Pole in 33 days after Amundsen, and died of exhaustion on the way back? Answer: Robert Falcon Scott
Question: What is the name of the European peninsula where the Emirate of Grenada existed? Answer: Iberian peninsula
Question: Was Don Carlos an authentic character? Answer: No
Question: Who is the equivalent of a sergeant in the Navy? Answer: Chief petty officer
Question: What is the name of the tallest grass in the world? Answer: Bamboo
Question: According to the Old Testament, what was the name of the Israelite patriarch whose wife was Sarah? Answer: Abraham
Question: In which country is the novel "To Whom the Bell Tolls" by Ernest Hemingway set? Answer: Spain
Question: Who played the role of Dr. Zosia Stankiewicz-Burska in the TV series "For Better or Worse"? Answer: Barbara niven
Question: Are the Aztecs a family of Scandinavian or Aztec gods? Answer: Aztec
Question: Who among the ancients became famous for shouting "Eureka!"? Answer: Archimedes
Question: Who was the manager of the dance orchestra that performed in the film "Serenade in the Valley of the Sun"? Answer: Benny goodman
Question: Which Polish president signed the decree establishing the National Library in 1928? Answer: Ignacy Jan Pad
Question: What is the name of Italy's largest car company, founded in 1899? Answer: Fiat
Question: In ancient Rome, what were slaves fighting in the arena called? Answer: Gladiators
Question: What is the name of the Italian composer, violin virtuoso, the title character of Lehar's operetta? Answer: Paganini
Question: Which Polish director is the creator of the films "Amateur" and "Coincidence"? Answer: Andrzej wajda
Question: Who played the lead role in the TV series "A Stake Larger Than Life"? Answer: Richard Chamberlain
Question: Who won the Nobel Prize for literature in 1924? Answer: G.b
Question: What is the name of an electric-powered bus that draws energy from hanging running wires? Answer: Wuppertaler
Question: Which drama is the role of the Old Faithful played by Ludwik Solski from? Answer: The Old Faithful
Question: Who headed the party in the Soviet Union from 1964 to 1982? Answer: Leonid brezh
Question: What liquid is most commonly measured in barrels? Answer: Oil
Question: What was the name of the steep rock wall on the Capitoline Hill from which the Romans during the Republic knocked down traitors? Answer: Tarpeian
Question: Which country owns the island of Ithaca? Answer: Greece
Question: What is the name of an inert substance given to patients for therapeutic purposes? Answer: Placebo
Question: Who did U.S. Olympic swimming champion Johnny Weissmuller play in Irving Thalberg's film? Answer: Tarzan
Question: How many levs do you have to take and bid to win a schlemiel in bridge? Answer: 3
Question: Is the village of Lipce the setting of "The Peasants" or "The Wedding"? Answer: The wedding
Question: If 2x equals 2, then how much is x? Answer: 1
Question: What is the name for subjecting a fabric to alternating saturated steam and drying (e.g., by ironing) several times? Answer: Mercerising
Question: What was the name of the submarine captain in Jules Verne's novel "Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea"? Answer: Captain nemo
Question: What name, derived from Greek, is given to the doctor's headphones? Answer: Stethoscope
Question: In which city on the Roland Garros courts are tennis competitions held? Answer: Paris
Question: Was Gerwazy from Pan Tadeusz the keyholder of the Horeszko or Soplica families? Answer: Horeszko
Question: Who is the founder of the famous Wroclaw pantomime? Answer: Jan Nowak
Question: What was the name of a popular teleseminar show that appeared on the air for many years, hosted by Stanislava Ryster? Answer: The show of the
Question: Nō, Kabuki and Burnaku are the three main types of theater of which country? Answer: Japan
Question: In which museum can the Rosetta Stone be viewed? Answer: The british museum
Question: What is the name of the column-shaped cave infiltration that forms from the union of a stalactite with a stalagmite? Answer: Column
Question: On which continent is Troy located? Answer: Asia
Question: "Der Spiegel" is a weekly, daily or monthly magazine? Answer: Weekly
Question: What nationality was the physicist Ohm, the creator of the law of electric current flow? Answer: German
Question: What was the name of the English sailor and explorer who circumnavigated the world twice in the 18th century? Answer: Sir francis dr
Question: Who was the father of John Casimir? Answer: John iii
Question: Who was the king of scorers at the 1974 World Cup? Answer: Gerd muller
Question: Who is the inventor of the periscope? Answer: Sir christopher col
Question: Which country occupies most of the peninsula called Asia Minor? Answer: Turkey
Question: What is the name of the territory between the Noteć River, Lake Gopło and the Vistula River; its capital was Kruszwica? Answer: Silesia
Question: Notre Dame Cathedral is the symbol of which city? Answer: Paris
Question: Which instrument did Benny Goodman play? Answer: Clarinet
Question: How many full weeks does a calendar year have? Answer: 52
Question: What is the name of the secretion of the flower's honey gland cells? Answer: Honeydew
Question: In 1812, troops retreating from under Moscow suffered heavy losses while crossing which river? Answer: The Volga
Question: To whom did God give the tablets of commandments? Answer: Moses
Question: How many bones does the forearm consist of? Answer: Two
Question: Who commanded the Carthaginian army during the Second Punic War? Answer: Hannibal
Question: Does a tennis court have the same dimensions for singles and doubles play? Answer: No
Question: Sauerkraut has a sour taste because it contains ascorbic acid, lactic acid or acetic acid? Answer: Acetic acid
Question: From which country did the women's costume called a mantilla or mantilla originate? Answer: Spain
Question: The singers of which British girl band were Mel C. and Victoria Adams? Answer: Spice girls
Question: In which city does the Doge's Palace stand? Answer: Venice
Question: What other name does the eggplant go by? Answer: Aubergine
Question: In what year was Poland admitted to the Council of Europe? Answer: 1989
Question: What is the name of the body that directs the day-to-day operations of a joint-stock company, limited liability company or cooperative? Answer: Board of directors
Question: Which lake is Chicago located on? Answer: Lake Michigan
Question: What is the name of the execution machine used during the French Revolution? Answer: Guillotine
Question: In which country is the Jazz Jamboree festival held? Answer: Japan
Question: Is Italian chianti wine sweet or dry? Answer: Dry
Question: Since which year has Labor Day been celebrated on May 1? Answer: 1882
Question: There are two countries on the North American continent that have the United States in their name. One of them is the United States of America, and the other? Answer: United States of me
Question: Do cuckoos fly away from Poland for the winter? Answer: No
Question: To which famous drama is the libretto of "West Side Story," Leonard Bernstein's musical, referenced? Answer: Romeo and juliet
Question: What is the name of a winter bipod that includes rifle shooting and running? Answer: Biathlon
Question: To whom did Hephaestus forge the magnificent armor at Thetis' request? Answer: Achilles
Question: What phrase did Queen Elizabeth II say in Polish during a speech in the Sejm? Answer: Dobrze,
Question: What was the name of the admiral, founder and commander of the Abwehr, the German military intelligence service, who was assassinated on Hitler's orders in 1945? Answer: Wilhelm Canaris
Question: What do we call a number raised to the third power? Answer: Cube
Question: What is the term for a quadrangular courtyard in the monastery buildings, surrounded by cloisters, with a small garden? Answer: Cloister
Question: How many apostles were appointed by Jesus Christ? Answer: 12
Question: Sagarmatha is the Nepalese name for which mountain? Answer: Mount Everest
Question: What did the kitten in the children's song get on? Answer: A pony
Question: Which city is the capital of Syria? Answer: Damascus
Question: The opposite of superata is...? Answer: Passata
Question: What was the name of the first Soviet vehicle to travel on the surface of the Moon? Answer: Lunokhod
Question: What is the name of Jerzy Owsiak's charity? Answer: The Jerzy O
Question: What name did Volodyevsky bear? Answer: Vladimir
Question: What is the name of the permanent elementary particle with a positive electric charge that is part of the atomic nucleus? Answer: Proton
Question: What kind of writing did the Babylonians and Sumerians use? Answer: Cuneiform
Question: Finish: "Poor as a mouse...?" Answer: Rich as a cat
Question: A ream is 100, 500 or 1,500 sheets of paper? Answer: 500
Question: Give the full Polish name of the UPA army? Answer: Armia Kraj
Question: How many so-called Punic (Carthaginian) wars was fought by Rome against Carthage between 264 and 146 B.C.? Answer: Three
Question: What is the name of the percussion instrument, attached inside the hand, used by Spanish dancers? Answer: Castanets
Question: Is the adversary an ally or an adversary? Answer: Adversary
Question: What is the name of the main character of a folk play related to the legend of the Tatar attack in Krakow, riding a wooden horse? Answer: Jan zygm
Question: What is the name of the only EU institution whose members are directly elected? Answer: European Parliament
Question: Are storks carnivorous birds or arvore birds? Answer: Arvore birds
Question: Is the cycling race part of the biathlon or triathlon? Answer: Biathlon
Question: In boxing, what is the name for a fighter's temporary inability to continue fighting? Answer: TKO
Question: What chemical symbol does sulfur have? Answer: S
Question: What according to the proverb goes around in a circle? Answer: Time
Question: He performed in theaters in Krakow and Warsaw, played in "The Wedding," "The Promised Land," "Korczak" - who is it about? Answer: Jerzy kosinski
Question: From which fairy tale does the spell "Sesame open!" come? Answer: Ali baba and the
Question: Which Japanese city was destroyed by the 1995 earthquake? Answer: Kobe
Question: Which Greek philosopher realized his doctrine of renunciation of all material possessions and his ideal of living in harmony with nature by living in a barrel? Answer: Diogenes
Question: Which degree on the Beaufort scale is quiet, no wind? Answer: Zero
Question: Under which USSR leader did Soviet troops intervene in Afghanistan? Answer: Brezhne
Question: In what year was the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics established? Answer: 1922
Question: In the battle near which city did Prince Joseph Poniatowski die? Answer: Borodino
Question: How many Polish electoral kings came from the Vasa dynasty? Answer: 3
Question: What is the name of the unit of inheritance that occupies a specific place in the chromosome and determines the occurrence of an organism's traits? Answer: Gene
Question: In which city is the Metropolitan Opera located? Answer: New York
Question: What is the equivalent of a captain in the cavalry? Answer: A major
Question: What is the name of the Polish writer, author of the novel "Wicked"? Answer: Gregory Maguire
Question: What was the name of the mythical Greek singer whose music calmed the roaring waves and soothed the wild beasts? Answer: Orpheus
Question: Rubens shape is a slim or full figure? Answer: Slim
Question: At what age did women get the right to vote in the UKi? Answer: 30
Question: Which of Europe's great metropolises is "worth the masses"? Answer: London
Question: What do we call crops that are sown at the end of summer and mature the following year? Answer: Autumn crops
Question: Deficiency of which vitamin causes chicken blindness? Answer: Vitamin a
Question: What was the name of Christopher Columbus' flagship during his first expedition? Answer: Santa maria
Question: Which zodiac sign falls in the period 24.10-22.11? Answer: Scorpio
Question: What is the name of the city in Japan, site of the 11th Winter Olympics in 1972? Answer: Sapporo
Question: In which month of the year does the day that divides the year exactly in half fall? Answer: June
Question: How many chambers does the human heart have? Answer: Four
Question: On which letter of the alphabet did the names of the boys, listeners of Mr. Kleks' academy, begin? Answer: K
Question: Settlers of what nationality founded New York? Answer: Dutch
Question: What is the name of the strong Siberian wind, as well as the USSR's first space shuttle, which took off in 1988? Answer: Buran
Question: What is the name of the garment worn by monks? Answer: Cowl
Question: Through which continent does the Nile River flow? Answer: Africa
Question: To cease action after initial successes is to rest on what? Answer: Laurels
Question: What is the name of the era in the history of the earth, divided into 3 periods: the Triassic, Jurassic and Cretaceous? Answer: Mesozoic
Question: Do rhinos live in Asia? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the railroad connecting the European part of Russia with Siberia? Answer: Trans-siberian
Question: What was the name of the god of love in Greek mythology? Answer: Eros
Question: Which continent has more surface area: Africa or North America? Answer: Africa
Question: The cultural center of which national minority is Punsk in Podlaskie Province? Answer: Lithuanians
Question: Which Polish painter is the author of the 19th-century painting "Wernyhora"? Answer: Jan Matejko
Question: What was the name of Kant, the German philosopher? Answer: Immanuel
Question: What are the names of the remnants of meteoroids that fell to Earth? Answer: Meteorites
Question: Which part of the eye determines its color? Answer: Iris
Question: Common marshmallow is a plant with a strong smell, which is an agent against which insects? Answer: Aphids
Question: Which lake of the Polish Tatra Mountains is the largest? Answer: Lake maly
Question: Which African insects cause significant damage by eating wood? Answer: Termites
Question: What color is the coat of a bull horse? Answer: Red
Question: What is the integer part of the logarithm of some number called? Answer: Logarithm
Question: Which later French president participated in a military mission to Poland in 1920-1921? Answer: Charles de gaulle
Question: To whom did Ryszard Kaczorowski hand over the insignia of power of the Second Republic in 1990? Answer: Lech walensa
Question: What does the English term "big beat" literally mean? Answer: A large beat
Question: What term, derived from Latin, is used to describe the completion of higher education without a degree? Answer: Diploma
Question: Who was the beloved of Eros? Answer: Psyche
Question: Was Nicholas Rej a Calvinist or a Methodist? Answer: Calvinist
Question: In which Warsaw building did Eligiusz Niewiadomski shoot Gabriel Narutowicz? Answer: Palace of Culture and
Question: Which country is inhabited by the Khmers? Answer: Cambodia
Question: Leech, scorpion or chameleon - which of these animals is a reptile? Answer: Chameleon
Question: What did Hanka Ordonnna lose under the copper? Answer: Her head
Question: What was the name of a Polish actor, who died in 1943, mainly associated with the Polish Theater in Warsaw, known, among other things, for his leading role in the film "Znachor"? Answer: Zbigniew
Question: In India, what is the name of a man who does not belong to any caste and is deprived of all rights? Answer: Untouchable
Question: The founder of which city was Tsar Peter I of Russia? Answer: St. Petersburg
Question: Is the wigworm a shrub, bird or reptile? Answer: Insect
Question: In what century did portrait painter Henryk Rodakowski live? Answer: 17th
Question: Who played the male lead in Federico Fellini's "Eight and a Half"? Answer: Marcello mastro
Question: Was Delfina Potocka the wife of Zygmunt Krasinski? Answer: Yes
Question: What was the name of the herald of the Greek armies with the proverbial loud voice, a character in Homer's "Iliad"? Answer: Stentor
Question: Logomachy is an idle argument about what? Answer: Words
Question: In which novel by Henryk Sienkiewicz does the character of Marcus Vinicius appear? Answer: Quo vadis?
Question: What do we call recognition of a foreign diploma, title or degree as equivalent to a domestic one? Answer: Equivalence
Question: Is the element tungsten radioactive? Answer: No
Question: Who commanded the 5,000-strong Polish corps at the Battle of Dubienka? Answer: General Maczek
Question: Which Reich was Germany referred to as under Hitler? Answer: Third Reich
Question: On which river is Czersk, the medieval seat of the Mazovian princes? Answer: Narew
Question: What is the name of a group of merchants or travelers trekking across the steppe or desert with pack animals laden with cargo? Answer: Caravan
Question: "Half pipe" is a term associated with which winter sport? Answer: Snowboarding
Question: Who was the commander-in-chief of the Polish Army in France in 1918-19? Answer: Jozef p
Question: Which part of the Bible consists of more books - the Old or the New Testament? Answer: Old Testament
Question: Who is the creator of the "Turkish March"? Answer: Ataturk
Question: What is the metaphorical juxtaposition of two opposite words called? Answer: Oxymoron
Question: Stinging nettle with trichomes, trichomes or trichomes? Answer: Nettle
Question: What is the name of the cavity in the top of the barrel of a rocket gun, into which powder is poured? Answer: Powder chamber
Question: What unit is the Kelvin? Answer: Kelvin
Question: What is the name of Earth's largest outletless lake? Answer: Great salt lake
Question: Under whose control were the present-day states of Rwanda and Burundi before they gained independence? Answer: Belgium
Question: What was the name of the Jewish religious and judicial institution in ancient Judea whose death sentence on Jesus was confirmed by Pilate? Answer: Sanhedrin
Question: In what century did Molière live? Answer: 17th
Question: Who is the author of "Capital"? Answer: John stuart mill
Question: Which party did Felipe González Marquez, Spain's prime minister from 1982-96, belong to? Answer: Socialist
Question: On whose story was the film "Mother Joan of Angels" based? Answer: Joan of arc
Question: To deceive, to outsmart someone is to lead someone where? Answer: A merry dance
Question: Which takes longer: the circulation of Venus around the Sun or the rotation around its axis? Answer: Rotation
Question: Which animal do we invoke: basia, basia, basia? Answer: Basilisk
Question: Which general created the Polish legions in Italy during the Napoleonic era? Answer: Jan zygm
Question: Who became the first CEO of the Warsaw Stock Exchange? Answer: Jerzy zales
Question: Who painted the paintings "Batory at Pskov" and "Sobieski at Vienna"? Answer: Jan Matejko
Question: Which birds distribute the mail in the world of Harry Potter, the hero of Joanne Rowling's books? Answer: Owls
Question: Is a brig a one- or two-masted ship? Answer: Two
Question: What is the name of the famous Russian dancer of Polish origin, the author of the choreography for, among other things, the world premiere performance of "The Rite of Spring"? Answer: Vaslav nure
Question: Until what year was Bonn the capital of West Germany? Answer: 1949
Question: Which ocean is bigger: the Atlantic or the Indian? Answer: Atlantic
Question: Which country was Rembrandt from? Answer: Netherlands
Question: What is the phenomenon of decreasing material strength under long-term alternating loads called? Answer: Fatigue
Question: Which currency is used in Northern Ireland - the euro or the British pound? Answer: British pound
Question: What is the wife of a farm owner in Podhale called? Answer: Landlady
Question: Who was Maria Callas by profession? Answer: Opera singer
Question: In how many states of matter does water exist? Answer: 3
Question: Which European country, in 1967, sanctioned religious activity and declared itself the first atheist state in the world? Answer: Albania
Question: Who wrote the words "Let the nations know that Poles are not geese, that they have their own language"? Answer: Jan Matejko
Question: Which war did the Treaty of Versailles end? Answer: World War I
Question: On which play by George Bernard Shaw was the libretto of one of the most famous musicals, "My Fair Lady," staged in New York in 1956? Answer: Pygmalion
Question: What is the trade name of the mineral magnesium silicate, used in cosmetics? Answer: Talc
Question: Which of the princes of Moscow was the first to assume the title of Czar of Rus? Answer: Ivan iv
Question: What is the title of Aldous Huxley's 1932 anti-utopian novel? Answer: Brave new world
Question: Are Orthodox and Protestants Christians? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of a linguistic construction whose meaning cannot be derived from the meaning of the individual words that make it up? Answer: Idiom
Question: Who is the composer of the Brandenburg Concertos of 1721 written for the court band of the great music lover Christian Ludwig, Margrave of Brandenburg? Answer: Johann sebastian bach
Question: Was Marilyn Monroe an Academy Award winner? Answer: No
Question: How many atoms does one water molecule contain? Answer: Two
Question: What is the name of the contract for renting an aircraft for a specific flight or time? Answer: Charter
Question: What is the name of the dynasty currently reigning in Denmark? Answer: House of Glüc
Question: Is a sonnet a musical or literary work? Answer: Literary
Question: What is the name of the main character in Gogol's comedy "The Revisor" who ridiculed the townspeople of a small Russian town? Answer: Ivan ivanovich
Question: What was the name of the father of Asia, the protagonist of the novel "Pan Volodyjowski"? Answer: Pan Volodyj
Question: What was the name of the Cossack hetman who sparked the uprising in 1648? Answer: Stenka raz
Question: In which country are Tatra cars manufactured? Answer: Czech republic
Question: What was the name of the pope in office during World War II? Answer: Pius xii
Question: In which country did the oberek originate? Answer: Poland
Question: What is the name of the town in Kuyavia known for the victory of Vladislav Lokietek's army over the Teutonic army in 1331? Answer: Malbork
Question: Is the disease entity the patient or the disease? Answer: The disease
Question: Who described in "The Jungle Book" the story of a boy raised by wolves? Answer: Rudyard kipling
Question: Who signed the act of surrender on the part of Germany on May 7, 1945? Answer: Karl doenitz
Question: Which U.S. president was awarded the Order of the White Eagle before World War II? Answer: Franklin d. ro
Question: How many times have the Olympic Games been held in South America? Answer: Once
Question: If a car travels one kilometer in one minute, how many seconds does it travel 100 meters? Answer: 100 seconds
Question: Which birds make a voice called a clangor? Answer: Crows
Question: In what century was the Reichstag built in Berlin? Answer: 19th
Question: In which century did Poland break up into districts? Answer: The 14th
Question: Which letter denotes the unit ampere? Answer: A
Question: What is the dispute in Alexander Fredro's drama "The Revenge" about? Answer: The right to inherit
Question: With which phenomenon can bats avoid obstacles in the dark? Answer: Echolocation
Question: In what century was the University of Cambridge founded? Answer: 13th
Question: How do we place the knife and fork on the plate after we finish eating: parallel or crosswise? Answer: Crosswise
Question: What do we call the territory of a state, or part of it, surrounded on all sides by the land territory of another state? Answer: Enclave
Question: Which Polish boxer won two Olympic gold medals in Tokyo and Mexico? Answer: Zbigniew
Question: What is the name of the great French philosopher and mathematician, living in the 17th century, who said: "I think, therefore I am"? Answer: Rene descartes
Question: A representative of which species was Manfred, the protagonist of the movie "Ice Age"? Answer: Mammoth
Question: What straitjacket is much longer than a normal straitjacket? Answer: Long johns
Question: Who was the only president of the USSR? Answer: Mikhail gorbache
Question: Which country annexed Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1908? Answer: Austria-Hungary
Question: What is the smell of helium? Answer: None
Question: What was hanging over Damocles? Answer: A sword
Question: Which composer is the author of the operetta "Land of Smiles"? Answer: Franz lehar
Question: What is the name of a plant that generates electricity using a nuclear reactor? Answer: Nuclear power plant
Question: In which village did Sir Arthur Evans discover the ruins of Minos' palace in 1899? Answer: Knossos
Question: Who wrote "One Day of Ivan Denisovich" and "The Gulag Archipelago"? Answer: Alexander solzhenits
Question: In what year was the opening of the Warsaw Philharmonic held? Answer: In 1921
Question: The novel "The Day of the Jackal" by Frederic Forsyth refers to the assassination of Indira Gandhi, General de Gaulle or J.F. Kennedy? Answer: Indira Gandhi
Question: In which Italian city is Puccini's opera "Tosca" set? Answer: Rome
Question: What is the science of the origin of words and their original meaning called? Answer: Etymology
Question: How many minutes in total do both halves of a soccer match last? Answer: 45
Question: How many medals did American swimmer Mark Spitz win at the Munich Olympics? Answer: Seven
Question: In which South American city was the 1992 session of the Earth Summit - the International Conference "Environment and Development", dedicated to environmental and ecological problems? Answer: Rio de janeiro
Question: Is the Sun inside or outside the planetary system? Answer: Inside
Question: What is the common name for thin high heels in women's shoes? Answer: Stiletto
Question: Which bell is older: The Sigismund Bell or Big Ben? Answer: Big Ben
Question: By what name did ancient Rome's wars with Carthage go down in history? Answer: Punic Wars
Question: Which word is incorrectly used in the proverb: "Every two heads is not three"? Answer: Two
Question: What is the name of the theory that proclaims that nothing is absolutely true and depends on the individual feelings of each person? Answer: Relativism
Question: The protagonist of which novel by Stefan Żeromski was Rafał Olbromski? Answer: The last of the
Question: What was the name of the sorceress from the legend of King Arthur? Answer: Morgan le Fay
Question: To which country do the Canary Islands belong? Answer: Spain
Question: The co-founder and keyboardist of which American rock group was Ray Manzarek, who died in 1972? Answer: The doors
Question: In which month in the northern hemisphere does autumn begin? Answer: September
Question: Was artillery used in the Battle of Grunwald? Answer: Yes
Question: What do we call the highest authority in a joint-stock company? Answer: Chairman
Question: What was the name of the tolls charged for crossing bridges or cities by land or water? Answer: Port charges
Question: Who was the leader of the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia? Answer: Pol pot
Question: What are the names of the American tennis players of the Williams sisters? Answer: Venus and Serena
Question: Which daughter of Agamemnon helped her brother Orestes kill her mother, avenging her father? Answer: Electra
Question: How many countries signed the Munich Agreement? Answer: Four
Question: What is the name of the museum that houses Leonardo da Vinci's painting "Mona Lisa"? Answer: The louvre
Question: What is the name of the dried grass fed in winter what animal feed? Answer: Hay
Question: In which city rises the Golden Mountain, on which a 14-meter monument to John Paul II was recently erected? Answer: Krakow
Question: In which disease is insulin administered? Answer: Diabetes
Question: What is the name of a prominent Russian dancer and ballet master, playing the lead role in the American film "White Nights"? Answer: Mikhail Barysh
Question: The editor-in-chief of which magazine was Jerzy Turowicz since 1945? Answer: Polityka
Question: What is more important when it comes to crossing priority: traffic signals or road signs? Answer: Road signs
Question: The sons of which gods were Remus and Romulus? Answer: Mars
Question: Who was the first chancellor of the German Reich? Answer: Otto von bism
Question: Who plays the character of Jim Lovell in the movie "Apollo 13"? Answer: Tom hanks
Question: Are phytophages herbivores or a component of human blood? Answer: Both
Question: In the Christian religion, what is the name of the highest-ranking angel in the angelic choir, depicted in art with three pairs of wings? Answer: Seraphim
Question: What is the name of the fruit of the oak tree? Answer: Acorn
Question: What is the name of a nomadic Berber people in the central Sahara? Answer: Tuareg
Question: In what century did the repulse of Turkish besieged Vienna take place? Answer: 1683
Question: Which Polish king erected a 22-meter high column in Warsaw, which was crowned by a statue of King Sigismund? Answer: Sigismund I
Question: Which continent is circumnavigated by the Timor Sea, Arafura Sea, Coral Sea and Tasman Sea? Answer: Australia
Question: Do bryophytes have roots? Answer: Yes
Question: Which team was the opponent of "Górnik Zabrze" in the final of the Cup Winners' Cup in 1970? Answer: Real madrid
Question: Is the diplodocus a species of fossil reptile? Answer: Yes
Question: In what year was the Peace of Oliva signed? Answer: 1411
Question: Which letter in the international phonetic alphabet used by pilots stands for sierra? Answer: S
Question: The city of Istanbul was previously called Constantinople. And what was the name of the city in ancient times? Answer: Byzantium
Question: What do we call the number by which we divide? Answer: Divisor
Question: Is mumps an infectious disease? Answer: Yes
Question: Who hosted a DIY program for many years? Answer: Bob Vila
Question: In what century was Stanislaw Moniuszko's opera "The Haunted Manor" premiered? Answer: 19th
Question: What was the name of the first king of Poland from the Piast dynasty? Answer: Mieszko i
Question: What precious metal mimics tombac, a copper-zinc alloy used to make inexpensive jewelry? Answer: Brass
Question: Which American singer launched the hit ".... Baby One More Time?" Answer: Britney spears
Question: Which street is the Polish Sejm sitting on? Answer: Palace of the parliament
Question: According to Cicero, what is habit to man? Answer: A second nature
Question: What was the name of the political movement initiated by Lech Walesa in 1993? Answer: Solidarity
Question: In which city was Jozef Pilsudski imprisoned during World War I? Answer: Brest
Question: In which city are Falcon helicopters manufactured? Answer: West point
Question: Did the Hungarian composer Bela Bartok create an opera? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of the palace, the seat of the French president? Answer: Elysee palace
Question: Does Ryszard Szurkowski hold the title of individual world champion? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of St. Ignatius, the founder of the powerful Jesuit order, characterized by a strict rule of obedience? Answer: Ignatius of loy
Question: What is the name of a straight line that has one point in common with a circle? Answer: Tangent
Question: What is the name of the pollen-producing element of the flower, consisting in angiosperm plants of a head and a thread? Answer: Anther
Question: How many dots does a polygon count? Answer: One
Question: Which writer created the character of Philip Marlowe? Answer: Raymond chandler
Question: Snowdrops bloom in spring or late autumn? Answer: Spring
Question: Which city is the capital of Norway? Answer: Oslo
Question: What are the names of the striped mammals of the equine family? Answer: Zebra, qu
Question: On which continent does the wildebeest antelope live naturally? Answer: Africa
Question: Which Mediterranean island did the British use as a naval and air base during World War II? Answer: Malta
Question: Please provide the names of the feuding families from which Romeo and Juliet came. Answer: Montague and cap
Question: Where did the Arpad dynasty reign? Answer: Hungary
Question: What is the name of the author of the book "Dark, Almost Night"? Answer: John le carre
Question: Which European dictator assumed the title of Duce? Answer: Benito mussolini
Question: Who played the lead role in Michael Curtiz's "Casablanca"? Answer: Humphrey Bogart
Question: On the territory of which state is the city of Kursk located? Answer: Russia
Question: Which two letters stand for intelligence quotient? Answer: IQ
Question: What is the name of the world's deepest lake? Answer: Lake baikal
Question: Who painted the landscape with the merciful Samaritan, located in the Czartoryski Museum in Krakow? Answer: Rembrandt
Question: The image of which king is on the 100 zloty banknote? Answer: Jan III Sobies
Question: What is the name of the scientific commentary on the court verdict? Answer: Commentary
Question: In which work did Adam Mickiewicz describe Jankiel's concert? Answer: Pan Tadeusz
Question: Is glucose a simple sugar? Answer: Yes
Question: What sport does the heroine of Clint Eastwood's film "At Any Price" play? Answer: Tennis
Question: Which two colors dominate the magpie's plumage? Answer: Black and white
Question: In the 9th century, Krakow was the center of which tribe? Answer: The Polans
Question: What course did Joseph Pilsudski start at the University of Kharkov? Answer: Law
Question: What do we call the crime of a mother killing her child during childbirth? Answer: Infanticide
Question: From what plant, besides the beet, is sugar made? Answer: Sugar cane
Question: Who is the author of the comedy "The miser"? Answer: Jack benny
Question: Which gas is the main component of Venus' atmosphere? Answer: Carbon dioxide
Question: What is the name of an early Iron Age Lusatian culture stronghold discovered in 1933 in Greater Poland? Answer: Złota culture
Question: Is a kier a red heart or a red rhombus? Answer: A red heart
Question: Do the oceans form a single entity or are they not contiguous? Answer: No, they are
Question: Which disease was the cause of Chopin's death? Answer: Tuberculosis
Question: What is the name of the consonant doubled in the word "maiden," for example? Answer: The letter 'd'
Question: Is iodine a solution of iodine in water or alcohol? Answer: Solution
Question: What else is the auditory trumpet called? Answer: Tromba
Question: Which Polish king was born in Sweden? Answer: Sigismund
Question: Which prominent German physician who lived at the turn of the 20th century discovered mycobacterium tuberculosis? Answer: Robert koch
Question: Who is the author of the novel on which the film "Promised Land" was based? Answer: Matt Damon
Question: What color was the rabbit from the book "Alice in Wonderland"? Answer: White
Question: In which city is the Museum of the History of Polish Jews located? Answer: Warsaw
Question: In which country was the first railroad opened? Answer: United Kingdom
Question: Was Epicurus a Greek or Roman philosopher? Answer: Greek
Question: Which body part does Irena Kwiatkowska praise in the movie "Hallo Spitzbrodka"? Answer: The back of her
Question: What is the name of the Czech director, creator of the films "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" and "Amadeus"? Answer: Milos forman
Question: What is the name of the frog, one of the main characters of "The Muppet Show"? Answer: Kermit
Question: Finish the saying: "He laughs who...". Answer: Laughs last
Question: What is the name of the first singer of the band Varius Manx? Answer: John b
Question: BCG is a vaccine against which disease? Answer: Tuberculosis
Question: What is the name of the acid that forms during exercise in the muscles? Answer: Lactic
Question: Please indicate the year of the introduction of martial law in Poland. Answer: 1981
Question: What was Athena wearing at the time of her birth? Answer: A helmet
Question: In which village did Jesus raise Lazarus? Answer: Bethany
Question: Ceroplasty is the art of carving in which material? Answer: Clay
Question: Whose wife was Isolde the Fair-haired, the heroine of a medieval epic about love? Answer: King marke
Question: What was the name of the prophet and teacher who baptized Jesus Christ? Answer: John the Baptist
Question: From which country was the scientist who introduced the division of blood types? Answer: Austria
Question: Who composed the music for the opera "King Roger"? Answer: Tchaikovsky
Question: Does Malta belong to the European Union? Answer: Yes
Question: Is the hippopotamus a herbivorous or carnivorous animal? Answer: Herbivorous
Question: What is the title of Roman Polanski's film about Wladyslaw Szpilman? Answer: The pianist
Question: What was the name of the Soviet nurse in love with Janek Kos? Answer: Valentina Koslova
Question: To what animals are the victims of aesthetic medicine and the small mouth complex compared? Answer: Women
Question: Dyscalculia is a disorder of which skill? Answer: Maths
Question: What do we call a spacecraft designed to repeatedly transport people and equipment into Earth orbit? Answer: Space shuttle
Question: What is the name of the part of the city of Brest where the large and famous brewery is located? Answer: Kirov
Question: How many years is the term of the Senate in the US? Answer: Six years
Question: Are isotopes known for each element? Answer: No
Question: One decigram how many grams is that? Answer: One tenth of a
Question: Are tapirs mammals or reptiles? Answer: Mammals
Question: What is the name for the opacity of the lens of the eye, causing visual impairment or blindness? Answer: Cataract
Question: Omega, Vectra, Astra - these are names associated with what brand of car? Answer: Vauxhall
Question: What do we call each female animal? Answer: A female
Question: What river is Bialystok located on? Answer: Narew
Question: Does the district govern the county or the municipality? Answer: The district
Question: What is the name of the Polish composer who wrote the music for Coppola's film "Dracula"? Answer: Wojciech
Question: Which city is the capital of Bavaria? Answer: Munich
Question: What is the name of the archipelago located in the Indian Ocean, south of India; an independent state since 1965? Answer: Sri lanka
Question: What is the name of the device installed in homes or cars that maintains a constant, preset temperature and humidity? Answer: Air conditioner
Question: What is the name of a Tatra lake, which is also the name of one of Warsaw's parks? Answer: Morskie O
Question: In ancient Rome, what was the name of the official in charge of the census, estimating the assets of the population and controlling their morals? Answer: Censor
Question: What was the name of the medieval ruler, not subject to anyone's authority? Answer: King
Question: Where did the elevator go in the song by the band 2 plus 1? Answer: Up
Question: Great Britain, France, USA - in which country was slavery abolished the latest? Answer: USA
Question: Who was Demeter to Zeus? Answer: Mother
Question: Which side in World War I did Serbia fight on? Answer: The allies
Question: Which music band released the albums "Emu" and "Elf"? Answer: The emus
Question: Who took power immediately after the death of Joseph Stalin? Answer: Malenkov
Question: In which province is Gorzow Wielkopolski located? Answer: Wielkopolskie
Question: What is the name of the designer of the first diesel compression-ignition engine? Answer: Rudolf diesel
Question: What is the title of the work by Szymon Szymonowic whose characters are Oluchna and Petrucha? Answer: The Wedding
Question: Where is the homeland of the kiwi bird located? Answer: New Zealand
Question: What kind of kinship did Jack Soplica and the Judge have in common? Answer: Both were related to
Question: Who was the creator of the Carolingian power? Answer: Charlemagne
Question: What was the name of the demonstration of representatives of 141 cities organized in Warsaw during the Four-Year Sejm in support of the reform camp? Answer: Congress of the Polish
Question: What is the name of the part of the plant whose primary function is photosynthesis? Answer: Leaves
Question: Who is the director of the film: "Walesa, Man of Hope"? Answer: Andrzej wajda
Question: Which city hosted the first modern Olympic Games, held in Greece in 1896? Answer: Athens
Question: What is the name of the punishment involving exile from the home country? Answer: Exile
Question: From which continent the Swahili language originated Answer: Africa
Question: What was the name of the son of St. Monica, Bishop of Hippona, Doctor of the Church who lived at the turn of the 4th and 5th centuries? Answer: Augustine
Question: Does a farsighted person wear focusing or diffracting lenses? Answer: Focusing
Question: What is the name of an agreement of an international nature between the Holy See and a specific country? Answer: Concordat
Question: What is the name of an army that fights on foot? Answer: Infantry
Question: To which country does the island of Lampedusa belong? Answer: Italy
Question: What is the title of Franz Lehar's operetta from which the aria "The mouth is silent, the soul sings" comes? Answer: The merry widow
Question: For his role in which film did Tom Hanks receive the second Oscar of his career? Answer: Philadelphia
Question: Complete the proverb: "what country is..."? Answer: The land of the
Question: What is the name of a Polish dancer born in 1944, a soloist with the ballet of the Grand Theater in Warsaw and the 20th Century Ballet, among others? Answer: Zbigniew
Question: On which day of the year does the Catholic Church celebrate Epiphany? Answer: January 6th
Question: Do the Flemish or Walloons have more inhabitants in Belgium? Answer: Flemish
Question: Part of which ocean is the Hebridean Sea? Answer: Atlantic
Question: From which dynasty did King Ladislaus I Lokietek of Poland come? Answer: Jagiellonian
Question: In which month does April Fool's Day fall in Poland? Answer: April
Question: What was the name of the girl who saved her friend Kai in Christian Andersen's "The Snow Queen"? Answer: Gerda
Question: Does freeze-drying food mean depriving it of water or fat? Answer: Water
Question: Is a lobster a marine or freshwater crustacean? Answer: Marine
Question: Whose name is the oldest bridge in Czech Prague named after? Answer: Charles
Question: What is the name for a morbid fear of being indoors? Answer: Claustrophobia
Question: Is the beaver a rodent, predator or ruminant? Answer: Rodent
Question: An autonomous part of which country are the Faroe Islands? Answer: Denmark
Question: Who told the tales of the thousand and one nights? Answer: Scheherazade
Question: What is the name of the largest artificial water reservoir in Poland, built on the San River? Answer: Zegrzyński
Question: What country is Justin Timberlake from? Answer: Canada
Question: From which country did Marc Chagall originate? Answer: Russia
Question: In which mountains is Lysa Polana located? Answer: Tatras
Question: The Order of the Rising Sun is the highest decoration of which country? Answer: Japan
Question: What was the codename of the plan for the Third Reich's aggression against the Soviet Union? Answer: Operation Barbarossa
Question: Which national hero is depicted in the monument at the lower gate leading to Wawel Castle? Answer: Jan zywn
Question: What is the name of the acid also called niacin or vitamin PP? Answer: Nicotinic acid
Question: What is the name of one of the world's most extensive libraries, located in Washington, DC? Answer: Library of congress
Question: In tennis, what is it called to flip the ball in a high arc over the opponent? Answer: A lob
Question: The product of two numbers with opposite signs is always positive or always negative? Answer: Always positive
Question: Of how many literary works does a tetralogy consist? Answer: Four
Question: Which city is located on both the Vistula River and the Drweca River? Answer: Warsaw
Question: What nationality was the architect Antonio Gaudi? Answer: Spanish
Question: To which order of insects do dawnbeaks and meadowlarks belong? Answer: Orthoptera
Question: Are there mammals that have the ability to fly? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of potatoes derived from the German language? Answer: Kartoffel
Question: In what year did the First Partition of Poland occur? Answer: 1772
Question: Does Warsaw's Aleje Ujazdowskie belong to the so-called Royal Route? Answer: Yes
Question: Does Honduras have access to the Pacific Ocean? Answer: Yes
Question: How many degrees is a solid angle? Answer: 180
Question: What number appears in the title of a popular series about Beverly Hills teens? Answer: 90210
Question: Of how many periods does the periodic table of elements consist? Answer: 7
Question: In which country was President Giorgio Napolitano elected to a second term? Answer: Italy
Question: The port side is the port or starboard side of the ship? Answer: Right
Question: Who in 1918 was the author of the appeal contained in 14 points, calling for world peace? Answer: Woodrow wilson
Question: On which river is Malbork located? Answer: Nogat
Question: What is the name of the palace located near the Royal Castle in Warsaw, which was the residence of Prince Joseph Poniatowski? Answer: Lazienki
Question: The wives of which Polish king were Catherine of Austria and Elizabeth of Austria? Answer: Sigismund
Question: In what century did Stanislaw Kostka live? Answer: 17th century
Question: Who is the author of the colonnade in the square in front of St. Peter's Basilica? Answer: Gian Lorenzo Bernini
Question: Did the January Uprising and the November Uprising take place in the same century? Answer: 17th
Question: What is the name of the ornament in the shape of a small hoop made of precious metals, expensive stones, etc. usually worn by women above the wrist of the hand? Answer: Bracelet
Question: Which lizard changes coloration easily? Answer: Chameleon
Question: What was the name of the defensive fortification system about 4,000 kilometers long built by the Germans during World War II to protect Western Europe from Allied invasion from the sea? Answer: Atlantic wall
Question: Is excise tax an indirect or direct tax? Answer: Indirect
Question: What was the name of the last ruler of Poland from the Piast dynasty? Answer: Stanislaw ii
Question: How many is twelve divided by four? Answer: 3
Question: In which city was Christ born? Answer: Bethlehem
Question: Speech is silver. And what is silence? Answer: Golden
Question: What is the name of the Polish composer of the first half of the 20th century, author of the ballet "Harnasie"? Answer: Penderecki
Question: Which city is the capital of Nepal? Answer: Kathmandu
Question: In which city is Hyde Park located? Answer: London
Question: Which organ defect is astigmatism? Answer: Eye
Question: To whom is the museum located in the Naglowice Manor dedicated? Answer: Jan Matejko
Question: What does the Italian call "Eviva l'arte!" mean? Answer: Long live art!
Question: Who in the Catholic Church appoints the bishop? Answer: The Pope
Question: From which country does the ancient farandola dance originate? Answer: Italy
Question: From which historical event did Miron Bialoszewski write a memoir? Answer: The holocaust
Question: What is the name of the actor who played the role of Rzecki in the TV series "The Doll"? Answer: Robert taylor
Question: In what year was the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia established? Answer: 1993
Question: Is Cupid the Roman equivalent of the Greek Eros? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the anti-Jewish laws passed in Germany in 1935? Answer: Nuremberg laws
Question: Who is the composer of the opera "Sold Bride"? Answer: Smetana
Question: Which strait connects the Mediterranean Sea to the Atlantic Ocean? Answer: Gibraltar
Question: Which city is the constitutional capital of the Netherlands? Answer: The hague
Question: Which president held office earlier: Narutowicz or Wojciechowski? Answer: Wojciech
Question: How many days in a row are mournful Gregorian Masses celebrated? Answer: Three
Question: What does a rectangular road sign with a white P on a blue background mean? Answer: Public convenience
Question: What is the name of a popular potato pest allegedly dropped by Americans on Polish fields in the 1950s? Answer: Colorado beetle
Question: What was the name of the French playwright who lived in 1732-99, the author of the comedies "The Barber of Seville" and "The Marriage of Figaro"? Answer: Beaumarchais
Question: In which city was the 13th Row Theater established? Answer: New York
Question: Is King Lear the mythical king of Britain or Ireland? Answer: Ireland
Question: What do we call the processes of fossil formation resulting from the transformation of organic plant and animal remains into inorganic components of the Earth's crust? Answer: Fossilization
Question: What is the name of the Polish infantry formed under Stefan Batory, which included peasants? Answer: The szlach
Question: What was the name of the legendary Cossack, the Ukrainian lyricist? Answer: Taras Bulba
Question: From which land does Geralt, the Witcher from Andrzej Sapkowski's novels, hail? Answer: Poland
Question: What kind of leaves are stuffed cabbage rolls wrapped in in the Balkans? Answer: Cabbage leaves
Question: What was the name of the political grouping active during the French Revolution that was based in the Convent of St. James in Paris? Answer: Jacobins
Question: What draws the wolf to the forest? Answer: The smell of the
Question: What is the name of a secret ballot using white and black cards, the word comes from French? Answer: Blanc et noir
Question: Bromine at room temperature is solid, gas or liquid? Answer: Solid
Question: The result of multiplying two real numbers with two different signs is positive or negative? Answer: Negative
Question: The capture of which part of Warsaw by the Russians became the actual end of the Kosciuszko Insurrection? Answer: The Old Town
Question: Which field of science did the American scientist Norbert Wiener study? Answer: Cybernetics
Question: Which king established the Maritime Commission, Poland's first shipping authority, in the 16th century? Answer: Mieszko I
Question: What nationality was Balzac? Answer: French
Question: In what century did Ignatius Loyola found the Jesuit order? Answer: 16th
Question: Which character in the Valley of the Mummies writes a diary of his own youth? Answer: The lone ranger
Question: Which work was written earlier: "Dziady" or "Pan Tadeusz"? Answer: Dziady
Question: In what year was the Tehran conference held? Answer: 1943
Question: What is the name for a rise in the price of securities or commodities listed on the stock market? Answer: Bull market
Question: In what year was Polish prose writer Tadeusz Konwicki born? Answer: 1924
Question: Please state the first three letters of the Greek alphabet? Answer: Alpha, beta,
Question: In which two countries is the rupee the currency? Answer: India and Pakistan
Question: Do beavers feed on fish? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the part of the plow used to cut the skid, the blade that slices the soil? Answer: Shovel
Question: What is the name of the officer assigned to the senior commander's disposal? Answer: Adjutant
Question: What were the names of Lazarus' two sisters from Bethany? Answer: Martha and Mary
Question: What is the name of the magma that rose to the surface of the earth? Answer: Lava
Question: White Mountains, Green Mountains - these are the ranges of which American mountains? Answer: Appalachians
Question: Crossing which river Caesar said the following words: "The dice have been cast"? Answer: Rubicon
Question: Chromatic signs (bemol, cross, punch) are placed over a note, before a note or instead of a note? Answer: Before
Question: What is the name of the home of North American Indians? Answer: The plains
Question: Are metresa and medresa the same thing? Answer: No
Question: What is the eye's adaptation to seeing objects from different distances or to different light intensities called? Answer: Accommodation
Question: Is Belgium a member of the United Nations? Answer: Yes
Question: Are crocodiles viviparous or oviparous? Answer: Viviparous
Question: What was the title of the TV series about the dramatic love between a rich planter and a beautiful slave girl? Answer: The slave
Question: Which anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising will fall in 2024? Answer: 75 years
Question: Who, under the political will drawn up on 29.04.1945 by Adolf Hitler, became his successor? Answer: Karl doenitz
Question: What were the heavily-armed infantrymen, armed with helmet, armor, nagolenniki, leather shield, spear and sword, fighting in the Greek and Macedonian phalanx, called? Answer: Hoplites
Question: What is the name of the Polish sailor who was the first woman to circumnavigate the world alone on the yacht "Mazurek"? Answer: Maria szymans
Question: In which Russian city is the famous Tretyakov Gallery located? Answer: Moscow
Question: Followers of which religion dominate in Indonesia? Answer: Islam
Question: In what year was the Berlin Wall erected? Answer: 1961
Question: Which director made his debut in cinema earlier: Andrzej Wajda or Krzysztof Zanussi? Answer: Andrzej wajda
Question: Is the title of Giuseppe Verdi's opera "La Traviata" also the name of the main character of the opera? Answer: Yes
Question: Further brothers to the mace is a song from the November Uprising period. Is the aforementioned boule a type of firearm or an incisive weapon? Answer: A firearm
Question: Prince Pan is the antagonist of the title character of the fairy tale "Rumcajs" or "The Abduction of Balthazar Spong"? Answer: Prince Pan
Question: What bird is associated with a rumor, a made-up news item reported in the press? Answer: Robin
Question: What great oratorio is George Friedrich Handel's famous "Hallelujah" a part of? Answer: Messiah
Question: Which Polish king sentenced Stanislaw of Szczepanów to death for treason? Answer: Casimir the great
Question: In which country is Dubrovnik, the pearl of the Adriatic Sea, located? Answer: Croatia
Question: Does the turtledove, an insect of the cricket family, spend most of its life underground? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the process in nature that converts carbon dioxide and water into sugar and oxygen? Answer: Photosynthesis
Question: What was the name of the Israelite in the Babylonian captivity who translated dreams to Nebuchadnezzar? Answer: Daniel
Question: Finish the proverb: "and the wolf is full, and..." Answer: The lamb is dead
Question: In December 1982, the communist authorities banned the sale of alcohol before what time? Answer: 11pm
Question: On which part of the body do Greek Catholic clergymen impose a cloche? Answer: Head
Question: What is clergy celibacy called? Answer: Clerical celib
Question: How many weeks did the balloon trip in the title of Jules Verne's novel last? Answer: 80
Question: In which country is the medal "Meritorious for Culture Gloria Artis" awarded? Answer: Russia
Question: Does Slovenia border Austria? Answer: Yes
Question: What was the title of the newspaper that was the organ of the Central Committee of the Communist Party? Answer: Pravda
Question: What is the depth of the Mariana Trench - more or less than 10,000 meters? Answer: More than 10,
Question: How many black squares does an 8 x 8 checkerboard have? Answer: 64
Question: Who in Goethe's "Faust" uttered the words: "Theory is gray, and the golden tree of life is evergreen"? Answer: Mephistoph
Question: In which U.S. state is Hollywood located? Answer: California
Question: To which country does the island of Java belong? Answer: Indonesia
Question: On which continent do the yaks live? Answer: Asia
Question: What instrument records changes in atmospheric pressure? Answer: Barometer
Question: In which sport was the world record holder Janusz Sidlo? Answer: Pole vault
Question: What is the name of the central state library opened in Warsaw in 1928? Answer: Centralny bibliotek
Question: Hippies are a youth movement that originated in the 1960s in which country? Answer: United States
Question: With the armies of which country did the Polish army fight at Kircholm in 1605? Answer: Sweden
Question: Exports are the importation of goods, capital and services from abroad, or their exportation abroad? Answer: Export
Question: Which blood pressure is higher: systolic or diastolic? Answer: Systolic
Question: Does the Orthodox Church recognize the same number of sacraments as the Catholic Church? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the geological unit of division of geological formations - the set of rocks formed during the epoch? Answer: Formation
Question: In which battle with the Russian army in 1794 did Tadeusz Kosciuszko get captured? Answer: Battle of Kozi
Question: How many arms do snow stars usually have? Answer: Five
Question: In which city is Leonardo da Vinci's painting "Lady with an Ermine" located? Answer: The louvre
Question: Through which countries does the Tagus River flow? Answer: Portugal, Spain,
Question: Which city is the capital of the Democratic Republic of Congo? Answer: Kinshasa
Question: Is brass an alloy or an element? Answer: Alloy
Question: In which field did the Nobel Prize go to Samuel Beckett? Answer: Literature
Question: Which city hosted the last Summer Olympics before World War II? Answer: London
Question: Is onomatopoeia a sound imitation or a modern form of verse? Answer: No
Question: In which part of "Dziady" did Mickiewicz place the Great Improvisation? Answer: In the second part
Question: What was the name of a 17th-century astronomer from Gdansk, the founder of modern selenography? Answer: Johannes kepler
Question: In which village is the hospital from the TV series "For Better or Worse" located? Answer: Chipping Norton
Question: Who was the first chairman of the National Broadcasting Council? Answer: John f. k
Question: Is nitrogen part of the protein? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the oldest economic university in Poland? Answer: University of Lodz
Question: The Vistula or the Seine - which river is longer? Answer: The Vistula
Question: Who became president of the United States after the assassination of John F. Kennedy? Answer: Lyndon b
Question: Who is the author of the saying: "a new parable a Pole buys for himself, that both before the harm and after the harm he is stupid"? Answer: Jan zabrana
Question: Administratively, Italy is divided into provinces, regions or states? Answer: Regions
Question: In which Polish mountains is the limba found? Answer: Tatras
Question: What is the art of building stringed, necked musical instruments called? Answer: Luthiery
Question: What is the process of destruction of plastics due to chemical and physicochemical interactions of the surrounding environment called? Answer: Degradation
Question: What is the name of the traditional celebrations held in Poland to mark the completion of the harvest? Answer: Zimny sz
Question: What was the name of the Polish ethnographer to whom we owe the enormous knowledge of the countryside and Polish folklore of the 19th century? Answer:
Question: What was the name of the Polish jazz musician Karolak? Answer: Karol Szyman
Question: Stockfish - what species of fish is it? Answer: Cod
Question: What is the name of the verb's conjugation by persons, tenses, modes, numbers, and sides? Answer: Verbal
Question: What is the name of the close-fitting goggles worn by skiers and motorcyclists? Answer: Goggles
Question: In which city was Franz Ferdinand assassinated? Answer: Sarajevo
Question: Who was elected president of France in the election held on May 7, 1995? Answer: Jacques chirac
Question: Which king granted rights to the city named Kazimierz Dolny? Answer: Casimir the great
Question: Who composed the "Pathétique Sonata"? Answer: Beethoven
Question: What was the name of the queen of Poland (since 1975), wife of Stefan Batory, daughter of Sigismund I the Old and Bona? Answer: Jadwiga
Question: What is the name for a thick layer of sedimentary rock that is particularly distinct from neighboring rocks? Answer: Strata
Question: Are St. John's wort and holly herb the same plant? Answer: No
Question: On the territory of which country are there monuments from Babylon? Answer: Iraq
Question: What was the name of one of the leaders of the First Crusade who became ruler of Jerusalem in 1099? Answer: Godfrey of Bou
Question: What is the phenomenon of material bodies floating in the air called? Answer: Levitation
Question: Is the Eiffel Tower a riveted or welded structure? Answer: Welded
Question: Rock crystal is a colorless variety of which mineral? Answer: Quartz
Question: From which language is the name of the body of a small truck "pick up" derived? Answer: Hindi
Question: What is the name of an object in space that orbits another celestial body? Answer: Satellite
Question: How many volcanoes rose on the Little Prince's planet? Answer: Three
Question: Which invertebrates that feed primarily on the blood of the host are used in a method called hirudotherapy? Answer: Leeches
Question: What does the Spanish word "costa" mean? Answer: Coast
Question: Favelas are shantytowns on the outskirts of cities on which continent? Answer: South America
Question: What is the name of a character from Adam Mickiewicz's epic titled. "Pan Tadeusz": Jew, innkeeper, dulcimer virtuoso? Answer: Zagloba
Question: What is the name of the device for driving piles into the ground using a heavy steel block, freely lowered and raised by a winch? Answer: Rammer
Question: Which city is the capital of Azerbaijan? Answer: Baku
Question: Did dinosaurs belong to the vertebrates? Answer: Yes
Question: Which river and mountain is often followed by the action of the fairy tale? Answer: The river Rhine
Question: In what year did General Jozef Haller perform the symbolic wedding of Poland to the sea? Answer: 1920
Question: Which king was immortalized by Jan Matejko in his painting "The Prussian Homage"? Answer: Frederick the great
Question: Do Polish citizens flying to Schengen countries have to undergo passport checks at airports? Answer: No
Question: Which artist sings "We discover love unknown"? Answer: The carpenters
Question: On which continent is the puna, a high mountainous plant formation, found? Answer: South america
Question: In which sea is the island of Cyprus located? Answer: The Mediterranean
Question: Is yeast a unicellular or multicellular fungus? Answer: Unicellular
Question: Which Polish director is the creator of the films "Train", "Mother Joan of Angels" and "Pharaoh"? Answer: Jerzy skolim
Question: Is the secretary a bird, mammal or reptile? Answer: Bird
Question: What is the name of France's longest river? Answer: Seine
Question: Which city is the capital of Egypt? Answer: Cairo
Question: Which country did opera singer Pavarotti come from? Answer: Italy
Question: Which spatial figure has more vertices: the dodecahedron or the icosahedron? Answer: The icosah
Question: What is the name of Mojang studio's best-selling computer game? Answer: Minecraft
Question: The name of which fruit is used to describe a very large profit, earnings? Answer: Apple
Question: How many weddings were in the title of the movie with Andie MacDowell and Hugh Grant? Answer: Four weddings and
Question: At what distance is the longest sprint race held? Answer: 100 metres
Question: What is the name of a written money order to a bank instructing the bearer to withdraw the sum indicated on it from the issuer's account? Answer: Demand draft
Question: Which neighboring country's currency do Liechtenstein residents use? Answer: Switzerland
Question: What is the name of the Swiss tennis player who has won the US Open five times in a row? Answer: Roger federer
Question: What do we call deliberate violation of the rules of the game, such as in soccer? Answer: Offside
Question: What is the title of the only opera written by Ludwig van Beethoven? Answer: Fidelio
Question: What is the name of Israel's famous 9mm submachine gun, designed in 1949 by Uziel Gal? Answer: Uzi
Question: In what time does light travel one million kilometers: in about three seconds, three minutes or three hours? Answer: Three seconds
Question: How many players does a volleyball team consist of? Answer: Two
Question: How many atria is the amphibian heart made of? Answer: Two
Question: Do evergreen oaks occur in nature? Answer: Yes
Question: Which two countries does Mongolia border? Answer: China and Russia
Question: Whose name is Warsaw's Okęcie Airport named after? Answer: Copernicus
Question: What do we call instruments whose sound is created by hitting, shaking or rubbing? Answer: Percussion
Question: How many common points can 4 parallel lines have in common? Answer: 0
Question: What is the name of the gold-plated statuette awarded since 1929 by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in Los Angeles? Answer: Oscar
Question: What kind of death did Queen Bona die? Answer: Poisoning
Question: Wladyslaw Kopalinski author of many dictionaries. Is Kopalinski his real name? Answer: No
Question: Tachycardia is an acceleration of the function of which organ? Answer: Heart
Question: Tirana is the capital of which country? Answer: Albania
Question: What is the name of the British Queen's only daughter Elizabeth II? Answer: Elizabeth
Question: In which country was an all-terrain vehicle named ARO 10 manufactured? Answer: England
Question: What is the name of a people found in Nepal and India, whose representatives often work as porters? Answer: Sherpa
Question: In which archipelago is Midway Atoll located? Answer: Hawaii
Question: How many digits is the postal code in Poland? Answer: 6
Question: Who in the Deluge said: "End you, save your shame"? Answer: Noah
Question: Songs by which band were featured on the soundtrack of the movie "Mamma Mia"? Answer: Abba
Question: What is the name of the crossword puzzle that involves guessing not only the passwords, but also where they should be written? Answer: Cryptic
Question: In which country was the first auction house established? Answer: England
Question: Does palliative treatment remove the cause of the disease? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of the strait that connects the Black Sea to the Sea of Marmara? Answer: Bosporus
Question: What is the name of the lightest chemical element? Answer: Hydrogen
Question: What names did Karol Wojtyla take when he was elected pope? Answer: John paul ii
Question: In which building in Warsaw did the Four-Year Sejm sit? Answer: Palace of Culture and
Question: What were the Macedonian chieftains who divided Alexander's state after his death called? Answer: Diadochi
Question: What is the plural of the word skipper? Answer: Skippers
Question: What is the name of the tactile alphabet for the blind? Answer: Braille
Question: What is the name of a large park in the western part of Paris? Answer: Bois de boulogne
Question: Is the Yakuza a Chinese or Japanese mafia? Answer: Japanese
Question: What do we call the disease of poor vision in low light? Answer: Night blindness
Question: Does Mikhail Gogol's play "The Marriage" end with the main character's wedding? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of a semiconductor resistor whose resistance strongly depends on temperature? Answer: Thermistor
Question: Who wrote the novel about Anna Karenina's affair with Alexei Vronsky? Answer: Leo tolstoy
Question: Did Boryna take part in the January or November uprising? Answer: Boryna took
Question: What does the Latin "suprema lex" mean? Answer: The highest law
Question: What is the case variation of a noun called? Answer: Declension
Question: Which strait separates the islands of the Land of Fire from South America? Answer: Magellan
Question: Which king approved the nihil novi constitution? Answer: James ii
Question: Against which king was the Bar Confederation directed? Answer: Charles ii
Question: Where is the annual Jan Kiepura festival held? Answer: Warsaw
Question: Which mountain range is the conventional border between the continents: Europe and Asia? Answer: Ural mountains
Question: A collector of antique coins is...? Answer: A numismat
Question: Does Poland belong to an OECD organization? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the first Polish woman to receive the Lilienthal medal for outstanding achievement in gliding in 1960? Answer: Maria kowals
Question: Who was the coach of the Polish national soccer team at the 1976 Montreal Olympics? Answer: Stefan zyw
Question: What is the name of Hungary's national dance? Answer: The Hungarian Dance
Question: Deuterium is an isotope of which element? Answer: Hydrogen
Question: Which alphabet was developed earlier: the Cyrillic or the Gradish? Answer: Cyrillic
Question: Which Roman emperor's wife was Messalina? Answer: Claudius
Question: In which city is the National Polish Radio Symphony Orchestra headquartered? Answer: Warsaw
Question: In which country was hexagonal chess invented? Answer: Hungary
Question: Did Maria Skłodowska Curie have children? Answer: Yes
Question: In what year was the first broadcast of the underground Solidarity radio station made? Answer: 1981
Question: "First", "second" - what kind of numerals are these? Answer: Ordinal
Question: Will 2025 be a leap year? Answer: No
Question: Who in Poland convenes the Cabinet Council? Answer: Prime minister
Question: What is the name of a luxurious room in a theater auditorium, usually designed for several people? Answer: Box
Question: What national park located in the U.S. territory is primarily famous for its geysers? Answer: Yellowstone
Question: Who designed the dome of St. Peter's Basilica in Rome? Answer: Michelangelo
Question: Under what pseudonym did Jadwiga Helena Misel perform on stage? Answer: Helen mirren
Question: With whom did Paul McCartney record the song "Say, say, say"? Answer: Michael Jackson
Question: Is the saxophone a woodwind or brass instrument? Answer: Woodwind
Question: What organ is affected by Hashimoto's disease? Answer: Thyroid gland
Question: Is the anaconda a venomous snake? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of the capital of South Korea? Answer: Seoul
Question: Did Jacques Brel come from France? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the largest string instrument? Answer: Double bass
Question: In what century did the so-called Tunguska disaster take place in the Siberian taiga? Answer: 20th
Question: Which city is the capital of Kenya, a country in East Africa? Answer: Nairobi
Question: What is the real name of Boleslaw Prus? Answer: Boleslaw Pr
Question: What was Shakespeare's Richard III willing to give up his kingdom for? Answer: Anne boleyn
Question: What is the title of Stefan Zeromski's novel, published in 1912, which recounts the events of the January Uprising? Answer: The Uprising
Question: Which English queen was the last empress of India? Answer: Victoria
Question: Who is the author of the comedy "The Bourgeois Nobleman"? Answer: George bernard s
Question: What nationality was Grigory Saakashvili, the protagonist of the TV series "Four Armored and a Dog"? Answer: Georgian
Question: What do we call a situation in which all or a significant part of one type of production is mastered by a single enterprise? Answer: Monopoly
Question: The tax office is an agency of which ministry? Answer: Ministry of finance
Question: Does the aorta come out of the heart or go into it? Answer: Out
Question: What is the title of the Polish TV series in which the role of the brave Lieutenant Borewicz was played by Bronislaw Cieslak? Answer: The brave lieutenant
Question: Which metal is used in light bulbs due to its very high melting point? Answer: Tungsten
Question: Mahatma Gandhi was an advocate for India's liberation from the sovereignty of which country? Answer: Britain
Question: What was the name of the Italian dynasty reigning in Milan from which the Polish Queen Bona descended? Answer: Visconti
Question: In what year were the Nobel prizes first awarded? Answer: 1901
Question: What was the name of the last patriarch of the book of Genesis, the favorite son of Jacob and Rachel? Answer: Joseph
Question: What is the name of the sausage that can be juniper, hunter? Answer: Sausage
Question: In which city was Joan of Arc burned at the stake? Answer: Rouen
Question: The protagonist of which novel by Stefan Żeromski is Marcin Borowicz? Answer: The man who was
Question: In which city can you see Henryk Siemiradzki's canvas "Torches of Nero"? Answer: Warsaw
Question: The acronym of which international organization is OSCE? Answer: Organization for security and
Question: Is the adder subject to protection in Poland? Answer: Yes
Question: Who is the author of the term "iron curtain"? Answer: Winston churchill
Question: Which city is the capital of Kuwait? Answer: Kuwait city
Question: What does a dresser do in the theater? Answer: Makes costumes
Question: What is the name of the chemical reaction the carrying out of which requires the supply of heat energy? Answer: Endothermic
Question: In which competition was Jacek Wszoła the world record holder with 2.35m? Answer: High jump
Question: What was the name of the Polish pilot who was the first to fly the South Atlantic between Africa and South America in 1933? Answer: Janusz pusz
Question: Part of which sea is the Ionian Sea? Answer: Mediterranean
Question: What is the name of the only movable bone of the human skull? Answer: Atlas
Question: What is the name of the titular czardas princess from Imre Kálmán's operetta? Answer: Hanna Glawari
Question: What was the name of the first political party in the Polish lands founded in 1882 by Ludwik Warynski? Answer: Polish Socialist Party
Question: Is Cymbeline an instrument or a game? Answer: A game
Question: What is the name of the dessert made of eggs and sugar in the title of Roman Zaluski's comedy? Answer: Zabaglione
Question: What does the Latin maxim "per aspera ad astra" mean? Answer: Through difficulties to the
Question: What military rank did Horace Nelson have? Answer: Admiral
Question: What is the name of the high school graduation exam? Answer: SAT
Question: Which U.S. state has the largest area? Answer: Alaska
Question: They have come to Bethlehem and are playing leapingly to the Child - who is it about? Answer: The three wise men
Question: In which century did a direction in painting called Tashism develop? Answer: Twentieth (20
Question: On which ocean are the Seychelles located? Answer: Indian ocean
Question: What is the name of the largest lake in Europe? Answer: Lake ladoga
Question: In which city did the Commander-in-Chief Tadeusz Kosciuszko proclaim the National Uprising Act? Answer: Warsaw
Question: How many satellites does Venus have? Answer: None
Question: Which Polish king wrote beautiful letters to his wife? Answer: John paul ii
Question: In which U.S. state does the highest peak in North America rise? Answer: Alaska
Question: Where is Trajan's column located? Answer: Rome
Question: What was the name of Maciej Boryna's son from Wladyslaw Reymont's "Peasants"? Answer: Janek
Question: What three-letter acronym was used to refer to gas stations in communist Poland? Answer: Lotos
Question: How do you describe an artist in whose work the sea is the main motif? Answer: Marine artist
Question: Do dolphins breathe atmospheric air? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of a quinine-containing carbonated beverage? Answer: Tonic water
Question: What was the name of an ancient war device used to throw stones? Answer: Catapult
Question: What is the Polish name of the city of Kaliningrad? Answer: Kaliningrad
Question: If two different bulbs are connected in series is the current flowing in each bulb equal or different? Answer: Equal
Question: What do we call a state characterized by the abolition of the effect of gravity? Answer: Inertialess
Question: In what year did Valentina Tereshkova make, as the world's first woman, a space flight in orbit around the Earth? Answer: 1963
Question: What is the name of a cake baked on a spit? Answer: Rotisserie
Question: What is the name of the science of God? Answer: Theology
Question: Do the Carpathian Mountains lie entirely in Poland? Answer: No
Question: "To the forefathers for glory, to the brothers for encouragement" - on the pedestal of which Krakow monument were these words engraved? Answer: The monument to the
Question: What is the name of the resin of Tertiary conifers that can be found on the seashore? Answer: Ambergris
Question: What was the name of the German battleship that self-drowned in Montevideo Bay in December 1939 to avoid capture by the Allies? Answer: Graf Spee
Question: What is the name of a navigational instrument used to measure the distance traveled by a ship? Answer: Log
Question: Who lived earlier: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart or Johann Sebastian Bach? Answer: Mozart
Question: Who became president of Telewizja Polska SA after Wieslaw Walendziak? Answer: Jerzy Buzek
Question: What was the name of the Gdansk astronomer Hevelius? Answer: Johannes
Question: Who was the commander of the Russian army at the Battle of Borodino? Answer: Mikhail kutuzov
Question: The authorities of which country reside in Beirut? Answer: Lebanon
Question: In Poland, what is the title of the chairman of the Sejm presiding over the session? Answer: Speaker
Question: What is the name of a theatrical performance in which the content is conveyed without the mediation of speech, using gestures? Answer: Pantomime
Question: Which newspaper's editor-in-chief was Alexander Kwasniewski in 1984-1985? Answer: Gazeta Wybor
Question: Which order did Father Peter Skarga belong to? Answer: The order of the
Question: What is the name of a small four-string Hawaiian guitar? Answer: Ukulele
Question: What is the name of the smurf who loves to look in the mirror? Answer: Smurfette
Question: The first of February is what day of the year? Answer: The first
Question: What was the administrator of an ancient Persian province called? Answer: Satrap
Question: Does Iceland belong to NATO? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of an orchestral introduction to an opera or a stand-alone concert piece usually of a programmatic nature? Answer: Overture
Question: In which Polish city was the International Festival of Intervision held? Answer: Poznan
Question: In which field did Winston Churchill receive the Nobel Prize? Answer: Literature
Question: What are the names of the world's largest invertebrates? Answer: Giant squid and
Question: What is the name of the white weapon applied to the barrel of a rifle and used for hand-to-hand combat? Answer: Flashlight
Question: On the territory of which modern state is Hrushevka, where Rejtan was born? Answer: Ukraine
Question: What characteristic of outward appearance distinguishes the protagonist of Edmund Rostand's drama Cyrano de Bergerac? Answer: A huge nose
Question: In which city was the largest ancient library located? Answer: Alexandria
Question: Who was King Ladislaus the Short to Prince Leszek the Black? Answer: Grandfather
Question: What is the name of the Slavic deity with four faces? Answer: Svarog
Question: What are the pickles made of? Answer: Vegetables
Question: Who played the title role in Martin Scorsese's film "Taxi Driver"? Answer: Robert De Niro
Question: What is the name of the first letter of the Greek alphabet? Answer: Alpha
Question: What was the name of a series of Soviet manned spacecraft designed to transport astronauts to orbital stations? Answer: Soyuz
Question: What is the name of the opera's first lady who plays leading roles? Answer: Madame butterfly
Question: Which city is the seat of Switzerland's parliament? Answer: Bern
Question: Which philosopher was the founder of "atomism"? Answer: Democritus
Question: What is the name of Andrzej Zielinski's brother from the band Skaldowie? Answer: Marcin
Question: From which comedy by Molière does this quote come: "The envious will die, but envy will remain"? Answer: The misanthrope
Question: Which Iraqi city was built on a circular plan and was known as a circular city in the Middle Ages? Answer: Samarra
Question: What was Heracles supposed to bring from the garden of Hesperides? Answer: Golden apples
Question: How much does an adult liver weigh - more or less than a kilogram? Answer: About 1.5
Question: What is the name of Ethiopia's capital? Answer: Addis Ababa
Question: What is the name of a Mediterranean medicinal perennial with a branching root that resembles a human figure? Answer: Ginseng
Question: What was the name of the pope who collected and organized church chants in the 6th century? Answer: Pope gregory the
Question: What is the slowest, steady gait of a horse called? Answer: Walk
Question: What nickname was used to describe King Richard I of England, one of the leaders of the Third Crusade? Answer: Richard the lionheart
Question: What is the name given to the science of minerals, their formation, properties and occurrence in the Earth's crust? Answer: Mineralogy
Question: Did the U.S. participate in World War I? Answer: Yes
Question: Ptolemy's theorem is a geometric theorem or one involving accelerated motion? Answer: Geometric
Question: What is the name of the sign that raises the sound by half a tone? Answer: Sharp
Question: In which city is the romantic comedy "Notting Hill" set? Answer: London
Question: What was the name of the general, commander of the first independent parachute brigade that fought at Arnhem? Answer: Orde wingate
Question: What is the name of the branch of mechanics that studies the motion of material bodies under the influence of forces acting on them? Answer: Dynamics
Question: Who is the author of the 1881 painting. "Breakfast of rowers"? Answer: Pierre auguste ren
Question: What is the Polish title of the last book of the Pentateuch? Answer: Deuteronomy
Question: What was the name of the head of the Swedish government assassinated in February 1986? Answer: Olaf palme
Question: What is the name of the landscape depicted in painting or graphics? Answer: Landscape
Question: Who discovered the electron? Answer: Joseph john thom
Question: In what year did General Władysław Sikorski die? Answer: 1943
Question: Who was the leader of the National Socialist German Workers' Party (NSDAP)? Answer: Adolf Hitler
Question: Is a picometer more or less than a meter? Answer: Less
Question: In which country was a military formation called the Foreign Legion established in 1831? Answer: France
Question: What was the name of the small cushion placed underneath the gown, below the waist, in order to achieve a puffing out of the dress? Answer: Bustle
Question: Do cereals belong to the grass family? Answer: Yes
Question: Did Ignacy Paderewski - an outstanding politician and piano virtuoso - compose at least one opera? Answer: Yes
Question: Give the Polish title of the film in the James Bond series that Madonna starred in. Answer: The world is not
Question: In which city were doctors the first in Poland to perform a face transplant? Answer: Warsaw
Question: Which law allowed the bourgeoisie into the Diet for the first time? Answer: The Tiers Etat
Question: What is the process of dissolution of rocks, mainly limestone, by surface water called? Answer: Karstification
Question: Blood in the heart is pumped from the atria to the ventricles or vice versa? Answer: Atrium to ventric
Question: What was the name of the square in the cities of ancient Rome, where people's meetings, courts, fairs were held? Answer: Forum
Question: Adam Cisowski is a character from which novel by Kornel Makuszynski? Answer: The man who was
Question: Which large European island is called emerald or green? Answer: Ireland
Question: Is Brittany a region located in France or the UK? Answer: France
Question: Did Ernest Hemingway receive the Nobel Prize for literature? Answer: Yes
Question: Did President Franklin Delano Roosevelt attend the Potsdam Conference in 1945? Answer: Yes
Question: What was the name of the golden bees that were used to decorate Napoleon I's coronation outfit? Answer: Imperial bees
Question: What is the name given to the blowing of sand and dust by the wind from the ground (mainly in deserts)? Answer: Dust
Question: Is any natural number whose last digit is either 0 or 5 divisible by 5? Answer: No
Question: From which dynasty did Sigismund the Old descend? Answer: House of Luxembourg
Question: Who had a cool bust in the song title of the band "Wolves"? Answer: The who
Question: Are cedars coniferous trees? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the full name of Russia's parliament? Answer: Federal assembly of the
Question: The right to stand for election is the passive or active right to vote? Answer: Active
Question: According to Molière, the greater fool is the learned fool or the unlearned fool? Answer: The unlearned
Question: Which Austrian composer, who lived in 1732-1809 and is counted among the so-called Viennese classics, is the creator of the oratorios: "Creation of the World" and "Seasons of the Year"? Answer: Joseph haydn
Question: What is the name of the plantation of shrubs and fruit trees? Answer: Orchard
Question: Which French composer created the operas "The Pearl Catcher" and "Carmen"? Answer: Georges bizet
Question: On which animal should the skin not be divided? Answer: A snake
Question: In which century were the popes in the so-called Avignon captivity? Answer: 14th century
Question: Which Chaplin film was a satire on Hitler's rule? Answer: The great dictator
Question: Who painted the painting "Battle of Grunwald" in 1878? Answer: Jan Matejko
Question: Which Italian singer launched the hit song "Boys Boys Boys Boys"? Answer: Ricchi e po
Question: What is the name of the saint whose death is depicted on the "Doors of Gniezno" from the second half of the 12th century? Answer: St. wences
Question: Who was the court chronicler of Casimir the Just? Answer: Jan Dlugos
Question: What is the name of the author of the series of novels whose protagonist is Harry Potter? Answer: J. k
Question: Who parodied Helena Mniszkówna's novel "Leper" in the work "On the lips of sin"? Answer: Henryk sien
Question: What was the name of the Soviet Army until 1946? Answer: Red Army
Question: Who invented and created the Muppets? Answer: Jim Henson
Question: What was the name of a great German politician, chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany in 1949-63, a supporter of its integration into Western Europe? Answer: Konrad adenauer
Question: What do we call the coexistence of organisms of separate species beneficial to both parties? Answer: Symbiosis
Question: What is ten to the power of two? Answer: 100
Question: How many towers does St. Mary's Church in Krakow have? Answer: 3
Question: During which holidays are nativity plays presented? Answer: Christmas and Easter
Question: How many legs does a hippopotamus have? Answer: Four
Question: In which competition was Jozef Szmidt a world record holder and two-time Olympic gold medalist? Answer:
Question: In which century did Vesuvius destroy Roman Pompeii and Herculaneum? Answer: 1st century
Question: What is the name of Asia's longest river? Answer: Yangtze
Question: Do edible clams live in the Baltic Sea? Answer: Yes
Question: What was the name of the predecessor of the United Nations that existed before World War II? Answer: League of nations
Question: Which ruler fought a battle with Margrave Hodon at Cedynia? Answer: King John
Question: Who became the commander of the Home Army after the arrest of General Stefan "Grot" Rowecki? Answer: General Tadeusz
Question: What is the name of the mountain on which Moses received the tablets with the Ten Commandments? Answer: Mount Sinai
Question: Which city was captured in 410 by the Visigoths led by Alaric? Answer: Rome
Question: Which instrument did Phil Collins play when he was a member of the group "Genesis"? Answer: Drums
Question: Are the Great American Lakes freshwater or saltwater? Answer: Freshwater
Question: What do we call salts, usually sodium salts, of fatty acids? Answer: Soaps
Question: The funeral of which hero ends the action of the "Iliad"? Answer: Hector
Question: Which musical instrument was used by the rat man from Hameln who led the rodents out of town in the Grimm brothers' fairy tale? Answer: Flute
Question: In which century did Emperor Caligula reign in Rome? Answer: 1st
Question: To whom in "The Doll" does Wokulski direct his love? Answer: The doll
Question: What is the name of a multi-purpose machine for harvesting crops, including cereals, beets and potatoes? Answer: Combine harv
Question: What is the common name for a species of beans with large white beans? Answer: Lima beans
Question: Which chemistry professor became president of Poland in 1926? Answer: Ignaz jan pad
Question: A buttonhole is a hole located in which part of the jacket? Answer: Collar
Question: In which Spanish city is the Reina Sofia Museum, where you can see Pablo Picasso's Guernica? Answer: Madrid
Question: How many parts did the film story of the Kargula and Pawlak family consist of? Answer: Three
Question: Does Switzerland belong to NATO? Answer: Yes
Question: Who is the author of the 1864 painting. "Sermons of Peter Skarga"? Answer: Ivan aivaz
Question: Under which party did Bill Clinton win the 1992 U.S. presidential election? Answer: Democratic party
Question: Is there a marathon being organized in Poznan? Answer: Yes
Question: By which sea is the Spanish city of Barcelona located? Answer: Mediterranean
Question: What is the name of the largest of the Society Islands, an archipelago located in the Pacific Ocean? Answer: Tahiti
Question: In what year did the so-called "Poznan June" take place? Answer: 1956
Question: What is the name of the narrow glass tube used to measure small amounts of liquid? Answer: Pipette
Question: Finish: "What was, and is not, written in..."? Answer: The book of life
Question: From the name of the state of which Asian country comes the name of the popular tea species - "Assam"? Answer: India
Question: Are there nest-building fish in nature? Answer: Yes
Question: What was the name of the author of the first Polish chronicle? Answer: Jan Dlugos
Question: In what century did John Gutenberg construct the printing press? Answer: 15th
Question: Does electrocardiography record blood flow in the veins or currents in the heart muscle? Answer: Currents
Question: Is a truffle an aboveground or underground fungus? Answer: Underground
Question: Who wrote "Devajtis," "Czahary" and more than 30 other novels? Answer: Slawomir
Question: Which of the four evangelists were apostles? Answer: Matthew, Mark,
Question: What is the name of the red pigment contained in erythrocytes? Answer: Haemoglobin
Question: Has man ever reached the bottom of the Mariana Trench? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the ethical doctrine that recognizes pleasure, enjoyment as the goal and highest good of man, and avoidance of unpleasantness as a condition of happiness? Answer: Hedonism
Question: Who is the composer of the ballet "Spartacus"? Answer: Aram khachatur
Question: Which mountains separate Spain from France? Answer: Pyrenees
Question: What gives the Gummies superhuman strength? Answer: The Gummy
Question: What is the title of the novel by Boleslaw Prus, referring to the growing movement for women's equality in the late 19th century? Answer: The Woman Question
Question: Who founded the Collegium Nobilium in Warsaw in 1710? Answer: Jan zamojs
Question: Give two names of Roosevelt, the 32nd president of the United States. Answer: Franklin D. Roosevelt
Question: Which Hungarian composer is the author of the operetta "Countess Marica"? Answer: Lehar
Question: Who is the composer of the opera "La Bohème"? Answer: Puccini
Question: What was Jan Krzeptowski called? Answer: The last king of
Question: What was the name of the dog that Nel - the heroine of Henryk Sienkiewicz's novel "In Desert and Wilderness" - got. "In the wilderness and in the wilderness"? Answer: Zosia
Question: Within which European country is the Bishop's Forest located? Answer: England
Question: Is the guinea bird a starling or a parrot? Answer: Parrot
Question: What calf sows two mothers? Answer: Pig
Question: From what is cinnamon obtained - from the bark, leaves or flowers? Answer: Bark
Question: On which river is the rowing race between the Cambridge and Oxford University eights held? Answer: Thames
Question: In which part of the human body is the wedge sinus? Answer: The skull
Question: Lisbon is the capital of which European country? Answer: Portugal
Question: How many seconds is an hour? Answer: 3600
Question: Are Coca-Cola and Pepsi-Cola drinks from the same manufacturer? Answer: No
Question: Which elephants have bigger ears: Indian or African? Answer: African
Question: Which Polish pianist won first prize in the first International Chopin Competition after the war in 1949? Answer: Wladyslaw
Question: What do we call the science that deals with the qualitative and quantitative study of population, its structure, movements, development and statistics? Answer: Demography
Question: Which case answers the questions: "about whom? about what?" Answer: The trial of O
Question: From which city does paprika come? Answer: Budapest
Question: What was the name of the leader and singer of the famous American rock band "The Doors," who died prematurely in 1971? Answer: Jim morrison
Question: Who is the author of the novel "The Whole Sky Sentence"? Answer: John galsworthy
Question: The maple leaf is the symbol of which country? Answer: Canada
Question: Who wrote a novel with social and rural issues entitled. "Cham?" Answer: George Eliot
Question: What rank in the Citizen's Militia did Wildcat, the hero of the comic strip, have? Answer: Captain
Question: In which ancient city was a shell court held annually between 487 and 417 B.C.? Answer: Athens
Question: Which singer's hit song is "Painted Doll"? Answer: The Supremes
Question: With the figure of which Danish fabulist is the Danish city of Odense associated? Answer: Hans Christian Andersen
Question: In Christian churches, what is the part of the building housing the altar called? Answer: The chancel
Question: Platonic solids are regular polyhedrons or pyramids? Answer: No
Question: One hundred grams of which fruit has more calories: watermelon or grapes? Answer: Watermelon
Question: What is the name of the intermediary between people who want to buy or sell securities on the secondary market? Answer: Broker
Question: What is another name for the cylinder-shaped hole in which the piston moves? Answer: Cylinder
Question: What was the name of the voluminous hooded wool coat worn by the Arabs? Answer: Burnous
Question: Sailing on the Vistula from Warsaw to Gdansk, will we pass Torun or Grudziądz first? Answer: Grudziądz
Question: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile - in which of these countries is Spanish not an official language? Answer: Chile
Question: What other name is the lasso given? Answer: Lasso
Question: The natural habitat of the oligopods is seas, rivers or tropical forests? Answer: Tropical forests
Question: What was the country of Burkina Faso called until 1984? Answer: Upper volta
Question: What was the name of Napoleon Bonaparte's first wife? Answer: Josephine
Question: Who was added to the ranks of the apostles after the death of Judas Iscariot? Answer: Matthias
Question: What is the name of a computer input device that takes the form of a moving lever, mainly used in computer games? Answer: Joystick
Question: Which Russian city is home to Mikhail Lomonosov University? Answer: Moscow
Question: What is the name of the wooden doll that became a boy in Carlo Collodi's novel? Answer: Pinocchio
Question: Mikhail Gorbachev was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1990.Was he the President of Russia or the USSR then? Answer: USSR
Question: In which province is the White Forest located? Answer: Quebec
Question: In which village did Emperor Henry IV beg Pope Gregory VII to remove the curse? Answer: Canossa
Question: By separating parts of which country was Bangladesh created? Answer: Pakistan
Question: What is the name of the uniform for hotel, restaurant, home service? Answer: Waiter
Question: To which country does the island of Corsica belong? Answer: France
Question: What color are xanthophylls, pigments found in flowers and plants? Answer: Yellow
Question: Who wrote the fairy tale entitled. "The Ugly Duckling?" Answer: Hans christian and
Question: In which century did an expedition to Egypt under Napoleon I set out from France? Answer: 19th
Question: Please provide both of Bach's names. Answer: Johann Sebastian
Question: Who is the author of the novel "Mass for the City of Arras"? Answer: George orwell
Question: What was the name given to the night of June 29-30, 1934, when a series of political murders took place in Germany? Answer: Night of the long
Question: The representative of which direction in European painting was the French painter Eugene Delacroix? Answer: Romanticism
Question: What pseudonym did Henryk Sienkiewicz use? Answer: Henryk sien
Question: What color was the revolution in Ukraine in 2004? Answer: Orange
Question: What do we call persistent atmospheric air pollution over areas of large cities and industrial districts? Answer: Smog
Question: What degree of relationship does Jan Englert have with Maciej? Answer: Uncle
Question: "The Moscicki method is a method of producing which acid? Answer: Sulphuric
Question: What is the recovery period from an illness called? Answer: Convalescence
Question: Is remission a periodic cessation of disease symptoms or an exacerbation of them? Answer: Exacerbation
Question: In what year was the transistor invented? Answer: 1947
Question: In which country lies the Ngorongoro Crater, which is a natural zoo? Answer: Tanzania
Question: Which sport is designated by the acronym MTB? Answer: Mountain biking
Question: What was the name of Jack and Plack's home village? Answer: Pudding lane
Question: What is the plural of the word "man"? Answer: Men
Question: In what century did Victor Hugo live? Answer: 18th
Question: In which constellation is the Pole Star located? Answer: Ursa minor
Question: In which mountains does Siklawa waterfall hum? Answer: The alps
Question: What did Jesus turn into wine at Cana? Answer: Water
Question: What is the name of the dense, parallel cracks in rocks, formed under pressure? Answer: Foliation
Question: Which Catholic monastery owns the monastery on Monte Cassino? Answer: The order of the
Question: Which film was the first to win 11 Oscars? Answer: Ben hur
Question: In what year was the "Declaration of the Rights of the Child" adopted by the United Nations? Answer: 1959
Question: In what year will a person who was born in 2011 turn 11? Answer: 2012
Question: Where was Frederic Chopin born? Answer: Poland
Question: Who is the author of "The Magician of Lublin," a play that Jan Szurmiej staged at the Warsaw Operetta? Answer: Slawomir
Question: Which African country was ruled by a dynasty descended, according to legend, from Israel's King Solomon? Answer: Swaziland
Question: In which American city did Al Capone operate? Answer: Chicago
Question: From which continent does the quinoa originate? Answer: South america
Question: Which painter is the author of the Renaissance painting "Sistine Madonna"? Answer: Leonardo da vinci
Question: Which great river flows through the Czech city of Prague? Answer: Vltava
Question: In what year did Napoleon Bonaparte die? Answer: 1821
Question: What is the name of the sacred mountain of the Slavs, which the German chronicler Thietmar wrote about in the early 11th century? Answer: Rysy
Question: What is the part of speech: one and a half? Answer: Adjective
Question: A politician of which country was Agostino Casaroli? Answer: Italy
Question: What is the name of a four-electrode electron tube? Answer: Tube
Question: How many candles fit on a Hanukkah lamp? Answer: 8
Question: What part of the Austrian crown was the halzer? Answer: The crown
Question: Which Kriegsmarine ship was sunk in May 1941 by the British fleet with the participation of the Polish destroyer "Piorun"? Answer: H.m
Question: Which sea does Romania have access to? Answer: Black sea
Question: From what breast did the heart in the soldier's song Heart in a Backpack break out? Answer: A soldier's
Question: Is the hexadecimal system six or hexadecimal? Answer: Six
Question: Which German composer lived between 1770 and 1827 and composed the Ninth Symphony? Answer: Ludwig van beethoven
Question: Which actor played the role of James Bond in the movie "The World Is Not Enough"? Answer: Pierce brosnan
Question: Do dolphins use infra- or ultrasound to communicate? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of a magnificent vessel used for brewing tea, originating in Tula? Answer: Samovar
Question: Who from the government side signed the agreement in Szczecin in August 1980? Answer: Lech Walesa
Question: On which continent do mammoth trees occur in their natural state? Answer: North america
Question: What was the name of the legendary founder and ruler of Krakow? Answer: Krakus
Question: Did Genghis Khan create the Mongol Empire in the Middle Ages or in antiquity? Answer: Middle Ages
Question: Do crabs live in Poland? Answer: No
Question: What color is neon? Answer: Neon
Question: Which city is home to the La Scala opera theater? Answer: Milan
Question: What was the name of the goddess of discord who threw a golden apple with the inscription "for the most beautiful"? Answer: Eris
Question: How many exchange offices does the Swiss Confederation consist of? Answer: 3
Question: Within which country is the historical land called Kraina located? Answer: Ukraine
Question: What semicircular folding object, usually very ornate, is used for cooling? Answer: Fan
Question: What was the name of Don Quixote's steed? Answer: Rocinante
Question: What is the name of the main square of Gdansk's Old Town? Answer: Market Square
Question: Is the Earth's distance from the Sun constant? Answer: No
Question: Which disease was the cause of the death of the Lady of the Camellias? Answer: Tuberculosis
Question: Which ruler was crowned in 1025 after Boleslaw the Brave? Answer: Mieszko
Question: Is a skibob a vehicle for moving on water or snow? Answer: Snow
Question: What piece by Modest Mussorgsky was recorded in its own rock version by the band "Emerson, Lake and Palmer"? Answer: Night on a bare
Question: What is the name of the island, which was once a single state entity with mainland China, but has been an independent republic since 1949? Answer: Taiwan
Question: From which region of Spain does the lively, rhythmic dance - flamenco - come? Answer: Andalusia
Question: What was the name of the leading representative of European Romanticism, an English lord, the author of "Giaour"? Answer: Lord Byron
Question: Does modern international law allow annexations? Answer: No
Question: What does the Latin word sanatio mean? Answer: Healing
Question: Is the pope elected by an assembly of bishops or cardinals? Answer: Cardinals
Question: Please provide the names of the two American actors who played the main male roles in the film "Sting." Answer: Robert Shaw and Richard
Question: What are the names of the fabric-sculptures made by the Polish artist Magdalena Abakanowicz? Answer: The forest
Question: In which country is the daily newspaper The Guardian published? Answer: United Kingdom
Question: From which port did the Titanic set sail? Answer: Southampton
Question: Harlem and the Bronx are neighborhoods of which city? Answer: New York
Question: Which legendary island does Plato talk about in the dialogues "Timaios" and "Kritias"? Answer: Atlantis
Question: From which language does the word "hit" come? Answer: French
Question: In what year was the famous Gniezno Convention held? Answer: 1031
Question: What is the name for the period in Polish literature that immediately followed Romanticism? Answer: Realism
Question: How many horns did the felt hat called a bikorn have? Answer: Two
Question: Did Wladyslaw Kozakiewicz set a world record at the Moscow Olympics? Answer: Yes
Question: For how many years did Alfred Nobel personally present prizes named after him? Answer: For the first ten
Question: The weeping wall is part of which temple? Answer: The temple mount
Question: Is the de volaille cutlet made from poultry or pork? Answer: Pork
Question: Who, besides mothers and wives, starred in the title of the TVP series? Answer: The simpsons
Question: Which party did Margaret Thatcher and John Major come from? Answer: The Conservative Party
Question: What was the name of the chronicler Kadlubek? Answer: Jan
Question: During the eruption of which volcano did the Roman writer and naturalist Pliny the Elder die? Answer: Vesuvius
Question: Where was the decimal system and the digits called Arabic numerals used by the whole world today invented? Answer: India
Question: Whose name is the Ateneum Theater in Warsaw named after? Answer: Frederic Chopin
Question: Does the larch shed its needles on the ground? Answer: No
Question: In what year did Austria-Hungary break up? Answer: 1918
Question: In which mountains does the Wielka Krokiew ski jump stand? Answer: The Tatras
Question: In poker, what is a hand of four identical cards called? Answer: A straight flush
Question: Which city was the capital of Brazil until 1960? Answer: Rio de janeiro
Question: The trademark of which detective was a lollipop? Answer: Inspector clouseau
Question: Which European Union country has the largest territory? Answer: France
Question: Which fruit grows on the willow tree when promises are unrealistic? Answer: Cherries
Question: Wielka and Mała Rawka are the peaks of the Bieszczady Mountains or the Swietokrzyskie Mountains Answer: Bieszcz
Question: The Ionian dialect used in antiquity is part of which language? Answer: Modern Greek
Question: Who directed the movie "The Godfather"? Answer: Francis ford cop
Question: In which European city will the promenade La Rambla lead to Columbus' column? Answer: Barcelona
Question: Five weeks - how many days is that? Answer: 35
Question: In which country was the Gustav Line, a system of German fortifications, built? Answer: Italy
Question: In which American city does the Statue of Liberty stand? Answer: New York
Question: Which lake is the deepest in Poland? Answer: Lake miedwie
Question: What was the name of Russia's last emperor? Answer: Nicholas ii
Question: Minsk is the capital of which country? Answer: Belarus
Question: Is Tokyo located on the same island as the Fuji volcano? Answer: No
Question: What was the name of the Polish director who created the "Three Colors" trilogy? Answer: Krzyszto
Question: What is the name of the title character of Boleslaw Prus' novel "Pharaoh"? Answer: Pharaoh
Question: In what year did the uprising in the Warsaw ghetto break out? Answer: 1943
Question: A wooden cubic cube weighs 8 kilos. How many kilos does a cube with an edge half as long weigh? Answer: 4
Question: Hypokalemia is a low level of which element in the human body? Answer: Potassium
Question: According to the Constitution, what is the supreme law of the Republic of Poland? Answer: Constitution
Question: In what century was the microscope invented? Answer: 17th century
Question: In which building in Warsaw did the Round Table deliberations begin? Answer: Palace of culture and
Question: Did Pablo Picasso use collages in his artwork? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the international police organization created in 1923, which deals with cooperation between the police of different countries in the fight against certain crimes (e.g. drug trafficking, terrorism, money counterfeiting, art theft)? Answer: Interpol
Question: Who sang the song "In the yellow flames of the leaves"? Answer: The kinks
Question: Which writer is the creator of the Witcher character Geralt? Answer: Andrzej sapk
Question: What is the name of the strait between the islands of Usedom and Wolin? Answer: Oder
Question: Who wrote the words: "Lithuania, my homeland"? Answer: Vytautas the
Question: By which sea are the ports of Rotterdam, Hamburg located? Answer: North sea
Question: How many cervical vertebrae does the human spine have? Answer: 7
Question: Which animal leaves behind a behemoth? Answer: Elephant
Question: According to church tradition, who is the author of the Acts of the Apostles? Answer: Luke
Question: How many member states does the UN Security Council consist of? Answer: Five
Question: Who was the Chief of State in 1918-22 and was appointed Marshal of Poland in 1920? Answer: Jozef p
Question: What is the name of the letter in which the court or prosecutor orders the prosecution of a fugitive defendant for whom a temporary arrest order has been issued? Answer: Warrant
Question: Do cuttlefish have shells? Answer: No
Question: Which beetle did the Egyptians worship? Answer: Scarab
Question: Journalists of which American newspaper exposed the Watergate scandal? Answer: Washington post
Question: What is the name of the first Polish order established in 1705? Answer: Order of the white
Question: What falls in the saying after the poppy is planted? Answer: The corn
Question: The daughter of which king was Catherine Jagiellon? Answer: Sigismund
Question: Which Ukrainian pole vaulter was the first to overcome a height of 6 meters? Answer: Sergey bubka
Question: What is the name of a two-electrode, tube or semiconductor device that conducts electricity easily in one direction and poorly in the other? Answer: Diode
Question: Which female name appears in the chorus of Edyta Górniak's 1994 hit song? Answer: Zbigniew
Question: How many years did Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart live? Answer: 35
Question: What was the name of Mieszko I's second wife? Answer: Dobrawa
Question: From which country does soccer player Cristiano Ronaldo hail? Answer: Portugal
Question: What is the name of the device for inputting images into the computer: drawings, photographs, maps, etc...? Answer: Scanner
Question: Who was the leader of the Free French during World War II? Answer: Charles de gaulle
Question: Is the ocelot a predator? Answer: Yes
Question: How many axes of symmetry does an ellipse have? Answer: Two
Question: In which country is the Great Pardubice horse race held? Answer: Czech republic
Question: In Poland, do local governments have the right to issue bonds? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of a small hand-powered rail vehicle? Answer: Trolley
Question: In which state are Great Bear Lake and Great Slave Lake located? Answer: Canada
Question: In which city Muhammad was born Answer: Mecca
Question: Where is the grave of General Wladyslaw Anders located? Answer: Warsaw
Question: From which continent did the Aborigines originate? Answer: Australia
Question: In what year was the "Universal Declaration of Human Rights" adopted by the United Nations? Answer: 1948
Question: On which sea is Jamaica located? Answer: Caribbean
Question: On which planet of the solar system are the Mariner Valleys located? Answer: Mars
Question: What was the name of the wife of King Amenhotep IV of Egypt? Answer: Nefertiti
Question: In which movie does the song "Dumka na dwa serca" appear? Answer: The good, the
Question: In which city is Kazimierz Wielki University located? Answer: Krakow
Question: How many years is the term of office of the Riksdag? Answer: 4
Question: What was the name of the physicist from Gdansk who invented the mercury thermometer? Answer: Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit
Question: In which city does the Colosseum, the Flavian amphitheater, rise? Answer: Rome
Question: What is the unanimous adoption of a resolution without a vote called? Answer: A voice vote
Question: What do the last words of the reluctant Christian emperor Julian Apostata, "Galilaee, vicisti!" mean? Answer: Galilee, you
Question: A man with a low-motor disposition is a sanguinarian or a melancholic? Answer: Melancholic
Question: What is the gland responsible for insulin secretion? Answer: Pancreas
Question: In which country is the city of Marrakech located? Answer: Morocco
Question: In which country is Sichuan province located? Answer: China
Question: What was the name of the French ruler, founder of the Capetian dynasty? Answer: Hugh Capet
Question: Which constitution was passed in Poland earlier: the March or April one? Answer: April
Question: How many pence did the British shilling consist of? Answer: 12
Question: Whom did Militiades defeat at the Battle of Marathon? Answer: The Persians
Question: What is the title of Lehar's operetta, whose heroine is a rich widow - Hanna Glawari? Answer: The merry widow
Question: How many horas were there, daughters of Zeus and Themis, depicted as personifications of the forces of nature? Answer: Three
Question: What is the name of the least populated territory in Europe with its capital in Nuuk? Answer: Greenland
Question: What do you call an adult who can't write or read? Answer: Illiterate
Question: An endoprosthesis is a prosthesis placed inside the body or outside? Answer: Inside
Question: What was the name of the Greek sun god? Answer: Apollo
Question: What was the name of the American actor who played leading roles in the films: "Rebel by Choice", "East of Eden"? Answer: James Dean
Question: Is a cyclist a motorcyclist or a bicyclist? Answer: A cyclist
Question: What is 3 to the third power? Answer: 27
Question: Which genre of literature did Aesop create? Answer: Fables
Question: Who died from Dejanira's poisoned robe? Answer: Hercules
Question: Which continent is inhabited by a bird named emu? Answer: Australia
Question: What was the name of the beautiful Egyptian queen for whose favor two great leaders of ancient Rome - Julius Caesar and Mark Antony - vied? Answer: Cleopatra
Question: What is the name of the title character of Jack London's novel, a young sailor who, through hard work, became a famous, albeit unhappy, writer? Answer: Martin Eden
Question: What is the devil's due when the Lord God gets a candle? Answer: A light
Question: What was the name of the Spanish fleet sent to conquer England in 1588? Answer: The Spanish Armada
Question: Which river is Poznań located on? Answer: Warta
Question: In what century was the Union of Poles in Belarus founded? Answer: 19th century
Question: In tennis and soccer, what is the name for hitting the ball in flight before it hits the ground? Answer: Chop
Question: Is the Washington Post a weekly or daily newspaper? Answer: Daily
Question: Which poet, satirist, cabaret actor, and author of the lyrics to the song "Her Portrait" died in 1988? Answer: Bob dylan
Question: In which city is Puccini's opera "Turandot" set? Answer: Peking
Question: In economics, how is the decline in the activity of economic life defined? Answer: Recession
Question: Where did the 1984 Summer Olympics take place, in which the Polish team did not participate? Answer: Los Angeles
Question: What is the name of the view that explains the geological processes of past eras by analogy to those of today? Answer: Catastrophism
Question: Boris Pasternak wrote a novel about the fate of the Russian intelligentsia in the pre- and post-revolutionary years. What is its title? Answer: Doctor Zhivago
Question: Lowelas - a title of British aristocrats or seducers? Answer: Lord
Question: What do we call the method of determining a person's identity by examining handprints? Answer: Dactylos
Question: What is the name of the decoration established in 1981 as a tribute to Warsaw insurgents? Answer: Order of the White
Question: On which cape is the Stefan Zeromski lighthouse and lighthouse museum located? Answer: Cape Wrath
Question: What was the symbol for the Fiat model known in Poland as a Maluch? Answer: Bull
Question: The sub-chancellor of which Polish king was the chronicler Janko of Czarnkow? Answer: Casimir
Question: A slot machine moved by a lever on the side is otherwise known as a "one-armed...? Answer: Bandit
Question: To which state did Szczecin belong between 1630 and 1713? Answer: Poland
Question: Who was the author of the radio play "Hello, I'm Nervous"? Answer: John osborne
Question: What is the name of the device we used to connect to the Internet in the 1990s? Answer: Modem
Question: From which social stratum did the soldiers of the Chosen Infantry come? Answer: The common people
Question: What is the name of the alcoholic beverage served before a meal to stimulate appetite? Answer: Vermouth
Question: In Roman mythology, what was the name of the goddess of spring flowering? Answer: Flora
Question: What was the name of the Italian general, fighter for the liberation and unification of Italy, who lived from 1807 to 1882? Answer: Giuseppe garibaldi
Question: In which city did Irena Szewinska win her first Olympic gold medal? Answer: Helsinki
Question: On the highways of which European city can you drive the fastest? Answer: Moscow
Question: What do we measure in volts? Answer: Voltage
Question: In which province is the Bialystok Forest located? Answer: Podlaskie
Question: In what year did Margaret Thatcher die? Answer: 2013
Question: What was the name of the journalist, TV sports reporter, promoter of the "Run for Health" campaign? Answer: James f fixx
Question: What function did Admiral Chester Wiliam Nimitz perform during World War II? Answer: Commander of the US
Question: What is the name for a morbid tendency to steal, often small items of little value? Answer: Kleptomania
Question: In what century was the first Council of Nicea held? Answer: 4th
Question: Who commanded the German troops at the Battle of Cedynia? Answer: General von rund
Question: What is the name of the Polish desert near Olkusz? Answer: Błęd
Question: In which battle did Henry II the Pious die? Answer: Battle of lewes
Question: According to medieval beliefs and folk tales, what were witches' rallies held on unforested mountain tops called? Answer: Sabbaths
Question: Is glass a good conductor of electricity? Answer: No
Question: What was the name of the diplomat, the USSR's representative at the UN, later to become foreign minister, called "Mister Niet"? Answer: Andrei gromyko
Question: What is the basic monetary unit in Japan? Answer: Yen
Question: Are ravens mono- or polygamous birds? Answer: Polygamous
Question: How many aircraft carriers did the Japanese lose in the Battle of Midway? Answer: 4
Question: Grey Regiments is the underground name of which organization? Answer: Royal navy
Question: Which of the three bards lived to be 60 years old? Answer: Beowulf
Question: What do we call a decline in the price of securities? Answer: A fall
Question: What did the knights of the round table seek, according to legend? Answer: The Holy Grail
Question: What is the name of Tajikistan's capital? Answer: Dushanbe
Question: The Tertiary is the first period of which era in Earth's history? Answer: The Cenozo
Question: From which language does the abbreviation UFO originate? Answer: English
Question: How long does it take for light to reach Earth from the Sun? Answer: 8 minutes and 20
Question: Is a trapezoid a polyhedron? Answer: No
Question: The style under the name empire was a variation of which direction in art? Answer: Rococo
Question: Is the gong a musical instrument? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the largest venomous cobra? Answer: King cobra
Question: Into which ocean do the largest rivers of the globe flow: Amazon, Congo and Mississippi? Answer: Atlantic
Question: What is the internal law of the Catholic Church called? Answer: Canon law
Question: What is the name of Turkey's largest city? Answer: Istanbul
Question: Who is the author of the novel entitled. "The Plague?" Answer: Albert camus
Question: What is the extrusion of grooves in paper products at the point of bending called? Answer: Banding
Question: How many strings does a violin have? Answer: Four
Question: Which band sang "Come, Mother, to the Oath"? Answer: The who
Question: In what year was Stefan Żeromski born? Answer: 1766
Question: What used to be called a tutor and teacher of children in wealthy homes? Answer: Governess
Question: Which Puccini opera features the characters Baron Scarpia and Mario Cavaradossi? Answer: Tosca
Question: Who created the oldest Slavic script called Glagolitic? Answer: Cyril and Methodius
Question: Is a bat a bird? Answer: No
Question: Are single-humped camels dromedaries or bactrians? Answer: Bactrians
Question: Who was the creator of Europe's largest National Library-like book collection, located in Warsaw in the 18th century? Answer: Jan zajic
Question: Which city founded in 1255 by the Teutonic Knights is a Baltic port and shipbuilding center? Answer: Gdansk
Question: What is the name of the soup made from the blood of a duck or goose? Answer: Foie gras
Question: "Being of the word" means being engaged or married? Answer: Engaged
Question: Which color is the alb? Answer: White
Question: What is the name of the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Answer: Sarajevo
Question: What is the name of one of the French aviation pioneers, designer and pilot who in 1909 became the first to fly across the English Channel in an airplane of his own design? Answer: Louis bleriot
Question: Are Zielona Gora and Jelenia Gora in the same province? Answer: No
Question: In what year was Boleslaw Prus born? Answer: 1824
Question: In what century did Aristotle live? Answer: 4th century bce
Question: In what century was the Kosice privilege granted to the nobility? Answer: 17th
Question: Does a person make vitamin C in the body? Answer: Yes
Question: How many spouses does each partner have in a monogamous marriage? Answer: One
Question: What is the name of the stones used to mark distances in ancient Rome? Answer: Milestones
Question: Which Japanese city was the second atomic bomb dropped on? Answer: Nagasaki
Question: Who is the author of the books "On the tracks of Smetka," "Herb na kraterze" and many others? Answer: Jaroslav Hasek
Question: What was the name of the Greek goddess of victory? Answer: Nike
Question: What is the name of the direction in contemporary music that is a synthesis of elements of jazz and rock music? Answer: Fusion
Question: How many married children did Queen Elizabeth I Tudor of England have? Answer: 17
Question: What is the name of a rectangle that has all sides equal? Answer: Square
Question: Is Nigeria an independent state? Answer: Yes
Question: New Brunswick is a province of which country? Answer: Canada
Question: In which province of Canada are 80% citizens of French origin? Answer: Quebec
Question: What is the name of a security that evidences debt obligations entitling the borrower to a certain amount of interest and the return of the borrowed amount of money? Answer: Bond
Question: What is the name of the contemporary music festival that takes place in Warsaw every year? Answer: Warsaw Autumn
Question: What is the distance of the optical focus from the mirror or lens called? Answer: Focal length
Question: In what age was Edgar Degas born? Answer: 1834
Question: Please complete the proverb: "The kettle has been drawn to the pot...". Answer: The pot has been
Question: The characters in which series are Stach, Hadziuk, Pietrek and Solejuk? Answer: The adventures of
Question: Which architectural style is represented by the Teutonic castle in Malbork? Answer: Gothic
Question: The sum of five odd numbers is even or odd? Answer: Even
Question: The troops of which country captured Smolensk in 1812? Answer: Russia
Question: What kind of a double-edged weapon is shaped like a bludgeon, often scored with sharp elements? Answer: Axe
Question: Who founded the philosophical school of the Stoics in Athens? Answer: Zeno
Question: In what year was the Polish Red Cross founded? Answer: 1921
Question: In what century was St. Mary's Altarpiece made by Veit Stoss? Answer: 14th
Question: Is cholera a viral or bacterial disease? Answer: Bacterial
Question: Which planet in the solar system has the greatest mass? Answer: Jupiter
Question: What color is the background of the Danish flag? Answer: White
Question: Java, Basic and Ladino - which of these languages is not a programming language? Answer: Ladino
Question: A consequence of which principle of dynamics is jet propulsion? Answer: Newton's third law
Question: What was the name of the marshal who accepted the surrender of Nazi Germany on behalf of the USSR? Answer: Georgy zhuk
Question: Is tango classified as a standard or Latin American dance? Answer: Latin
Question: How many ribs does a person have? Answer: 12
Question: What language did the ancient Romans speak? Answer: Latin
Question: Which leader of the notorious Medellín drug cartel was shot dead by Colombian police in 1993? Answer: Pablo escobar
Question: Which Polish pianist was the winner of the 9th Fryderyk Chopin Competition? Answer: Krystian z
Question: Which Spanish painter who lived in the 18th and 19th centuries is the author of the graphic series "The horrors of war" and the painting "Saturn devouring his children"? Answer:
Question: What was the best thing about the series "A Stake Greater Than Life" in Pigalle Square? Answer: The story
Question: What is the name of the Egyptian goddess, wife of Osiris, mother of Horus? Answer: Isis
Question: Which two pieces of cutlery are on the road sign marking the restaurant? Answer: Fork and knife
Question: Which Byron poetic novel features Leyla and Hasan? Answer: The Corsair
Question: Who is the author of the novel "Stone Tablets"? Answer: Wilbur smith
Question: What is the name of Africa's longest river? Answer: Nile
Question: Which animals were cubs in the title of Jaroslaw Żamojda's film? Answer: Tigers
Question: Marcus Tullius Cicero, Roman speaker and philosopher, lived before or in our era? Answer: Before
Question: How many divisors does each prime number have? Answer: Two
Question: What is the name of the French island in the Mediterranean Sea where Napoleon Bonaparte was born? Answer: Corsica
Question: What did St. Thomas the Apostle refuse to believe? Answer: The resurrection
Question: What is the name of an expression that is specific only to a language and cannot be literally translated into another language? Answer: Idiom
Question: What is the name of the island that was the site of Napoleon I Bonaparte's exile after his first abdication in 1814? Answer: Elba
Question: Who is the author of the theorem, which we usually write: a to square + b to square = c to square? Answer: Pythagoras
Question: Ignacy Jan Paderewski in 1919 served in the Polish government as minister of which ministry? Answer: Foreign affairs
Question: Which country was ruled by Tamara in the late 12th and early 13th centuries? Answer: Georgia
Question: While acting in which comedy did Molière fall asleep on stage and die? Answer: The misanthrope
Question: How many humps does a bactrian have? Answer: 2
Question: What is the name of the layer of the Earth's atmosphere at an altitude of 20-35 km, which protects the Earth's surface from too much solar radiation? Answer: Stratosphere
Question: In which European country is the city of Ghent located? Answer: Belgium
Question: Is the Tasmanian devil a mammal or a reptile? Answer: Reptile
Question: In which month is the traditional Dominican fair held? Answer: August
Question: Which continent does the baribal bear inhabit? Answer: North america
Question: What was the name of the Inca knotted writing? Answer: Quipu
Question: What color helmets are worn by soldiers who are part of the international peacekeeping force? Answer: Blue
Question: What do we call the cell formed when a male and female gamete combine? Answer: Zygote
Question: How many foci does an ellipse have? Answer: Two
Question: Who found the mysterious world on the other side of the mirror? Answer: Alice
Question: What is the phase of the Moon called when the side facing the Earth is unlit? Answer: Dark side
Question: How many subway lines are there in Warsaw? Answer: 3
Question: CEPiK stands for Central Register of Vehicles and who? Answer: Poland
Question: Is Bogotá, the capital of Colombia, a port city? Answer: No
Question: Which country is the writer Umberto Eco from? Answer: Italy
Question: What is the name of the branch of theology that deals with the knowledge of angels? Answer: Angelology
Question: What artistic pseudonym did Grzegorz Ciechowski use? Answer: Zdzisław
Question: In mathematics, what punctuation mark do we use to denote the concepts of strongman? Answer: Colon
Question: What continent does the potato come from? Answer: Europe
Question: In which series did Jerzy Kamas play the role of Wokulski? Answer: The smurfs
Question: In what year was the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen enacted? Answer: 1789
Question: What is the rosin used by violinists to rub strings made of? Answer: Rosin
Question: What is the name of the territory that the U.S. purchased from Russia at the end of the 19th century? Answer: Alaska
Question: In which country is Giuseppe Verdi's opera "Aida" set? Answer: Egypt
Question: The result of which action is the product? Answer: Reaction
Question: Is mistletoe a tree? Answer: No, it is
Question: What nationality were the first white settlers in South Africa? Answer: Dutch
Question: How many countries are in the Antilles - more or less than eight? Answer: 8
Question: Is the frogfish a representative of fauna or flora? Answer: Fauna
Question: What does the Latin phrase "ab ovo" mean? Answer: From the egg
Question: Antoni Patek, a pioneer in the production of accurate watches in Switzerland, was a participant in which uprising? Answer: The Polish upris
Question: Which German general was appointed commander of the Afrika Korps in 1941? Answer: Erwin Rommel
Question: Which saint's activities are linked to the Italian city of Assisi? Answer: St francis
Question: Who composed the music for the musical "West Side Story"? Answer: Leonard bernstein
Question: In what century was La Scala, Milan's opera theater, built? Answer: 1778
Question: Is Italian a set of vegetables or fruit? Answer: Vegetables
Question: Which Polish king led the Thirteen Years' War against the Teutonic Knights? Answer: Casimir iii
Question: Is "forest scabious" a fancy name for nettle? Answer: No
Question: Which band recorded the albums: "Revolver", "Help", "Let it be"? Answer: The Beatles
Question: Who invented the revolver? Answer: Samuel colt
Question: Was Boleslaw the Brave crowned king of Poland at the Congress of Gniezno? Answer: Yes
Question: What connects the hand to the forearm? Answer: Carpal bones
Question: What is the name of the special, grooved bowl used for dough or poppyseed? Answer: Punchbowl
Question: Did Camelot sit at the royal round table? Answer: Yes
Question: How many years did the Achaeans besiege Troy after Helen was kidnapped by Paris? Answer: 10 years
Question: Who painted the painting "Night Watch" in the 17th century? Answer: Rembrandt
Question: What is the name of a voluminous skirt in the form of a bell, pinned up with hoops? Answer: Cloche
Question: Who led the team of painters who created the Racławice Panorama? Answer: Stanisław Wysp
Question: At what age did women in Saudi Arabia gain active and passive voting rights? Answer: 30
Question: Which means of transportation did the participants in the Peace Race race with? Answer: Bicycles
Question: What was the Kingdom of Poland, formed after the Congress of Vienna, otherwise known as? Answer: The Second Polish Republic
Question: What is the name of the river in France, a right tributary of the Seine, on which two major battles took place during World War I? Answer: Marne
Question: Do sperm whales have teeth? Answer: No
Question: The prominent Polish mathematician Stefan Banach worked at the university in which city? Answer: Warsaw
Question: In medieval Poland, what was the name of the official in charge of the ruler's stable? Answer: Ostler
Question: What was the name of the magnate party of the Czartoryskis, who tried to carry out reforms in the Republic in the 18th century? Answer: Targowica
Question: Who is the author of the book "Influenza is rampant in Naprawa"? Answer: John masefield
Question: Is a pantsuit a men's or women's garment? Answer: Men's
Question: Which of the empires of antiquity were ruled by Cyrus, Darius and Xerxes? Answer: Persia
Question: What do we call a person who speaks several languages? Answer: Polyglot
Question: What is the name of the device used to record and play VHS tapes? Answer: VCR
Question: In what year did Henryk Sienkiewicz die? Answer: 1904
Question: What is the title of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's great unfinished work? Answer: Requiem
Question: What was the name of the last Polish president in exile? Answer: Lech Walesa
Question: Honorius Balzac married 4 months before his death. What was the name of the Polish noblewoman he married? Answer: Maria Konopnic
Question: From which European country did the ancestors of the Boers called Africans mostly come? Answer: Holland
Question: Which Polish mountains are associated with the stories of Liczyrzepa? Answer: Tatras
Question: What was the name of the Chinese political and state activist who shaped the cult of his person and initiated the "Cultural Revolution"? Answer: Mao tse tung
Question: In what century was slavery abolished in the U.S.? Answer: 19th
Question: What is the main prize at the Russian Song Festival in Zielona Gora? Answer: Golden Gramophone
Question: Is there a museum of Boleslaw Prus or Stefan Zeromski in Nałęczów? Answer: No
Question: Which country does Sicily belong to? Answer: Italy
Question: Who was Ladislaus the Short to Casimir the Great? Answer: Grandson
Question: The district of which city is Brzeszczekowice, where there is a column in honor of the Three Emperors and where the border of the three empires was located? Answer: Krakow
Question: The unit of which quantity in the SI system is the pascal? Answer: Pressure
Question: What is the name of the solar system's most distant planet from the Sun? Answer: Pluto
Question: The national team of which country usually begins the march of the national teams at the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games? Answer: Greece
Question: In which party game does soap appear, that is, a rectangular tile without marked points? Answer: Scrabble
Question: How many Brandenburg concertos did Johann Sebastian Bach compose? Answer: Six
Question: Which director's wife was Giulietta Masina? Answer: Federico fellini
Question: The abbey of which order is located in Tyniec? Answer: Cistercian
Question: From which part of "Dziady" by Adam Mickiewicz come the words: "whoever has not touched the earth once, can never be in heaven"? Answer: The first line of
Question: In which city is the Auschwitz-Birkenau camp located? Answer: Oświę
Question: In what century did the first Crusade take place? Answer: 11th
Question: What is the name of Italy's automobile thoroughfare of international tourist importance, connecting Milan, Rome and Naples? Answer: A1
Question: From which country did the bolero dance originate? Answer: Spain
Question: What nationality was the prominent composer Hector Berlioz? Answer: French
Question: Is basalt a magmatic or sedimentary rock? Answer: Magmatic
Question: In which suburban town did the preparations for the Round Table take place? Answer: Windsor
Question: Playing which instrument was Jimmy Hendrix famous for? Answer: Guitar
Question: What is the name of the public prosecutor in a criminal trial? Answer: Crown prosecutor
Question: Ramonesque is the name of a bird inhabiting the forests of the Amazon basin or a type of jacket? Answer: Jacket
Question: In what year did the United States of America join World War I? Answer: 1917
Question: In what century did Christopher Columbus make his last visit to America? Answer: 16th
Question: How many pieces does the mendel have? Answer: Eight
Question: What is the name of the tissue that conducts assimilates in a plant? Answer: Phloem
Question: Which epoch in Earth's history was older: the Bronze or the Stone? Answer: Stone
Question: What is the name of the Polish composer who wrote the music for Krzysztof Kieslowski's film triptych "Three Colors"? Answer: Zbigniew
Question: Who is the patron saint of drivers and travelers? Answer: St. christopher
Question: Who invented dynamite? Answer: Alfred nobel
Question: Who represented Poland in 1996 at the Eurovision Song Festival in Oslo? Answer: Edyta Gorn
Question: What is 50 minus 27? Answer: 23
Question: In which city was the Air Force Museum established in 2011? Answer: Cosford
Question: Is the number -5 a natural number? Answer: No
Question: Under which presidency did Jozef Pilsudski stage a coup? Answer: 1926
Question: Is the turniura a part of men's or women's attire? Answer: Women's
Question: On which Mediterranean island is the city of Syracuse located? Answer: Sicily
Question: In what century did the expedition of the thousand take place? Answer: 11th century
Question: In which century did King Sigismund the Old reign? Answer: 13th century
Question: In which province is Piotrków Trybunalski located? Answer: Silesia
Question: Is the melting point of mercury higher or lower than zero degrees Celsius? Answer: Higher
Question: Diamond is an allotropic variety of which element? Answer: Carbon
Question: What is the name of an ailment that occurs on ships, resulting from a lack of coordination between the sense of sight and the sense of balance? Answer: The bends
Question: Is a stent a type of endovascular implant or an artificial upper limb? Answer: Artificial limb
Question: Where did John Fitzgerald Kennedy die? Answer: Dallas, texas
Question: Which TV show was created by Jerzy Wasowski and Jeremi Przybora? Answer: The good life
Question: What questions are answered by the first case of declension i.e. the denominator? Answer: The case of declension
Question: Which religion is dominant in Pakistan? Answer: Islam
Question: In which province is the Wolin National Park located? Answer: Poland
Question: At what age did the car first reach 100 km/h? Answer: 16 years
Question: Did the USSR participate in the Korean War? Answer: Yes
Question: In which province is Jelenia Gora located? Answer: Silesia
Question: What is the phenomenon created by the refraction and deflection of sunlight in raindrops called? Answer: Rainbow
Question: What was the name of the woman from Jerusalem who gave the handkerchief to Jesus? Answer: Veronica
Question: What is sake made of? Answer: Rice
Question: In what year did Churchill and Roosevelt sign the so-called Atlantic Charter? Answer: 1941
Question: The Kalevala is the national epic of which country? Answer: Finland
Question: What was the name of the legendary German alchemist who allegedly sold his soul to the devil? Answer: Dr. faust
Question: For how many weeks was Westerplatte defended in September 1939? Answer: 8
Question: Which famous novel was William Golding's debut? Answer: Lord of the flies
Question: Is Geneva the capital of a French-speaking or German-speaking canton? Answer: French
Question: What does the Latin "Homo faber" mean? Answer: Man the maker
Question: Who was the first to construct a piano? Answer: Bartolomeo Cristofor
Question: Cook Strait separates the North Island from the South Island of which country? Answer: New zealand
Question: Warwick is the largest medieval castle in the British Isles lying in England, Scotland or Northern Ireland Answer: Warwick
Question: What country used war gases for the first time during World War I? Answer: Germany
Question: Is the diagonal of a square longer than its side? Answer: Yes
Question: Are Finland and Sweden members of the European Union? Answer: Yes
Question: Which church dominates in Greece? Answer: Greek Orthodox
Question: Who is the author of "Gulliver's Travels"? Answer: Jonathan swift
Question: At the time of the founding of the Covenant of the Center, who became its first chairman? Answer: John Jay
Question: Which river is Suwalki located on? Answer: The river nare
Question: At what age did Boleslaw Prus finish writing "The Doll"? Answer: At the age of
Question: In which town in northern France (Picardy), in the department of Somme, on the Somme River, is there an archaeological site from the Paleolithic era? Answer: Abbeville
Question: What is the common name for the Fiat 126p? Answer: Topolino
Question: Which country occupies the northernmost part of the Scandinavian Peninsula? Answer: Norway
Question: Which news program aired at 7:30 p.m. in communist Poland? Answer: News of the day
Question: How long was Bob Beamon's record-breaking long jump at the Mexico City Games? Answer: 8.90 metres
Question: Which planet has the shortest circulation time around the sun? Answer: Mercury
Question: What is the tangent of the zero angle? Answer: One
Question: What does the sculpture of Venus de Milo standing in the Louvre hold? Answer: An apple
Question: A monument to which great Pole stands in Washington, D.C.'s Lafayette Square? Answer: Copernicus
Question: What was the name of one of the creators of television, the English inventor (1888-1946) of, among other things, night vision (in 1926)? Answer: John logie ba
Question: Which nationality makes up the majority of Kosovo's population? Answer: Albanians
Question: What deed do we catch the thief in while stealing? Answer: Theft
Question: Who developed the steam locomotive? Answer: James watt
Question: What is the name of the Greek muse of tragedy? Answer: Melpomene
Question: Who was the host of the TV show "Fatherland-Polish"? Answer: Janusz gajos
Question: In which country are the Copts the most numerous group of Christians? Answer: Egypt
Question: Is a cube a prism? Answer: No
Question: Please translate: "to be or not to be"? Answer: To be or not
Question: Who wrote the book "Fifteen Year Old Captain"? Answer: William dean how
Question: What was the name of the British duo that included David Stewart and Annie Lennox? Answer: Eurythmics
Question: Who heads the department of higher education? Answer: Secretary of State for
Question: Did Polish tenor Jan Kiepura act in movies? Answer: Yes
Question: Who won the battle of Trafalgar? Answer: Nelson
Question: After which world war was Estonia founded? Answer: World War I
Question: Who sentenced Antigone to death for burying Polynices? Answer: Creon
Question: Do aurochs live in Poland? Answer: No
Question: The biggest star of which band was Freddie Mercury? Answer: Queen
Question: Did the battle in which Pyrrhus was victorious take place before our era or in our era? Answer: Before our era
Question: What is the name of our mineral raw material for smelting ferro-alloys? Answer: Iron ore
Question: A craftsman who makes and repairs small firearms is...? Answer: Gunmaker
Question: Which sport did Jerzy Kulej, Olympic gold medalist, practice? Answer: Judo
Question: The Apocalypse of St. John is a didactic, historical or prophetic book? Answer: Prophetic
Question: Which geometric figure can be Pythagorean, pythagorean, Indian, Egyptian? Answer: Triangle
Question: Which President of the National Bank of Poland participated in the denomination of the zloty in 1995? Answer: Leszek Balcer
Question: How many so-called runners does a chess player have? Answer: 8
Question: Which word in the sentence: "There was a bus in front of the school" is a preposition? Answer: In
Question: In which country does Stonehenge, a megalithic stone structure erected during the Neolithic period, stand? Answer: England
Question: "Your Style" is a weekly, biweekly, monthly or quarterly? Answer: Biweekly
Question: What was the name of the Turkish leader at the head of the national movement that overthrew the sultanate in 1922 and turned Turkey into a republic? Answer: Mustafa kemal at
Question: In what century did Conrad of Mazovia bring Teutonic knights to Polish lands? Answer: 13th
Question: Are home-bred bullheads parakeets, aquarium fish or ferns? Answer: Fish
Question: What is the name of a stylized human or animal face applied to the face or head, modeled in wood or other material? Answer: Mask
Question: Do most drivers in the world drive on the right or left side of the road? Answer: Left
Question: What was the name of the creator of the Soviet spacecraft "Vostok" who lived in 1907-66? Answer: Sergei Korolev
Question: By which sea is Varna located? Answer: Black sea
Question: What was the name of the king of Poland, who was also king of Sweden from 1592-99? Answer: Sigismund
Question: Which of the three musketeers was the count? Answer: Athos
Question: Who composed the operas "Khovanshchina" and "Boris Godunov"? Answer: Mussorgsky
Question: What is the name of the semi-precious stone, which is a purple variety of quartz? Answer: Amethyst
Question: Which Austrian politician, statesman was secretary general of the UN? Answer: Kurt waldheim
Question: Which international organization was created in the United States in 1943 with the motto of providing economic aid to the people of countries devastated by war, and disbanded in 1947? Answer: The wartime
Question: What sports did David Beckham play professionally? Answer: Soccer and American football
Question: Who is the director of the "Decalogue" film series? Answer: Krzyszto
Question: On which continent was the so-called "war for saltpeter" fought in the 19th century? Answer: Africa
Question: In what year was the Second Program of Polish Television established? Answer: 1956
Question: Can a GPS navigation system work properly at night? Answer: No
Question: Are hops an annual or perennial plant? Answer: Annual
Question: In which city can you visit the Stained Glass Museum? Answer: St helens
Question: In which city is the Racławice Panorama currently on display? Answer: Krakow
Question: In what time does light travel a distance of two light years? Answer: 2 years
Question: Who was the founder of Vilnius University? Answer: Vytautas the
Question: Chrysography is the art of painting with ink, blacking or liquid gold? Answer: Inking
Question: Where can you get a short-term loan against your valuable possessions or securities? Answer: A pawn shop
Question: What is the name of the French Mediterranean coast? Answer: Cote d'azur
Question: From what and Solomon will not pour? Answer: Water
Question: Was Molière also an actor? Answer: Yes
Question: Which Pole surveyed South Australia and Tasmania in 1839-43? Answer: James cook
Question: Which film is shorter: the one that lasts 1 h 50 min or the one that lasts 100 minutes? Answer: The one that las
Question: Which artist was the founder of the theory of pure form? Answer: Wassily kandinsky
Question: What is the name of a fixed or portable hunting stand several meters high, consisting of a platform, a bench and a ladder? Answer: Tree stand
Question: Who is the director of the film "Va banque"? Answer: Jacques feyder
Question: Is the tawny owl protected in Poland? Answer: Yes
Question: In which century was the great plague epidemic that killed 1/3 of Europeans spread? Answer: 14th
Question: What do we call the process of saturating a liquid with a gas? Answer: Saturation
Question: What is a tip or small donation called in the Middle East and North Africa? Answer: Zakat
Question: How many people lived in Biskupin - about a hundred, a thousand or five thousand? Answer: About a thousand
Question: Is Lombardy a region of France or Italy? Answer: Italy
Question: Who was victorious in the battle that took place at Legnica in 1241 between the Polish and Tatar armies? Answer: Poland
Question: What is the name of the footwear with a thick sole used to elevate actors performing in ancient theater in Greece and Rome? Answer: Buskin
Question: What was the name of the British aristocrat, military officer and politician who commanded the troops of the anti-Napoleonic coalition at the Battle of Waterloo? Answer: Lord Wellington
Question: What is the name of one of the seven hills of Rome on which the palace of the President of Italy stands? Answer: Quirinale
Question: In which city was the 19th-century philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer born? Answer: Frankfurt am Main
Question: What is a type of cheese called tofu made from? Answer: Soy milk
Question: What are the names of the long, narrow bays, formed by glacial action, that characterize Norway's coastline? Answer: Fjords
Question: In which province is Kolobrzeg located? Answer: Pomorskie
Question: What are the points with equal temperature values on the weather map called? Answer: Isotherms
Question: Did UN troops participate in the 1950-53 Korean War? Answer: Yes
Question: Does the truffle fruiting body grow underground? Answer: Yes
Question: Can it be percentage, life, profit or used for walking? Answer: A mile
Question: What is the name given to compounds of oxygen with other elements? Answer: Oxides
Question: In what year did World War I break out? Answer: 1914
Question: What is the minimum age for a person to drive a streetcar? Answer: 18
Question: What is the name of the hormone abbreviated LTH? Answer: Luteinizing
Question: What is the unit of electric current called? Answer: Ampere
Question: Which U.S. president imposed sanctions on Poland for martial law? Answer: Jimmy carter
Question: What was the name of the monster with many heads that grew back after being beheaded? Answer: Hydra
Question: Who was crowned king of the Kingdom of Poland in 1829? Answer: Stanislaw August Pon
Question: Do naked-seed plants have fruit? Answer: Yes
Question: What was the smallest administrative division in 1954-72? Answer: The parish
Question: In folk dances, what is the name for hitting a heel against a heel in a jump? Answer: Heel and toe
Question: Athos and Porthos were the names of two musketeers - and what was the name of the third? Answer: Aramis
Question: Which Greek mathematician around 600 BC discovered the phenomenon of attraction of light bodies by rubbed amber? Answer: Thales
Question: Who is the founder of psychoanalysis? Answer: Sigmund freud
Question: Which eight-thousander was conquered first? Answer: Babylon
Question: What is the name of the part of the Brent district of London with a huge soccer stadium, the traditional venue for the FA Cup? Answer: Brentford
Question: In which country was the war that the hippies protested against in 1968? Answer: Vietnam
Question: Which country waged war in 1935-36 and then occupied Ethiopia until 1941? Answer: Italy
Question: How many books about King Maciu wrote Janusz Korczak? Answer: Three
Question: Was a unit of length called the mile used in ancient times? Answer: Yes
Question: A representative of which literary direction was Norwid? Answer: Symbolism
Question: Which country was ruled by the Savoy dynasty between 1860 and 1946? Answer: Italy
Question: Is the number of books of the Bible according to Catholics and Protestants the same? Answer: No
Question: Which French commander in World War I was a marshal of France, Great Britain and Poland? Answer: Ferdinand foch
Question: The author of how many symphonies is Ludwig van Beethoven? Answer: Over 30
Question: What instrument did Orpheus play? Answer: Lyre
Question: What is the name of a cuboid whose walls are squares? Answer: Cube
Question: What is the name of Poland's highest military decoration? Answer: Order of the white
Question: What organ in mammals is where the ear canals, respiratory tract and digestive tract intersect? Answer: The nose
Question: The dictator of which country was Fidel Castro? Answer: Cuba
Question: What is the name of the point opposite the zenith, located on the invisible part of the celestial sphere? Answer: Nadir
Question: Which country is home to the largest national park in the world? Answer: Canada
Question: What do we call a wood processing plant where logs are mechanically sawn into lumber and processed? Answer: Sawmill
Question: Which country is famous for its tulips and windmills? Answer: Netherlands
Question: What is the name of the thin-skinned footwear with a strongly elongated nose, worn in Europe in the 12th-15th centuries? Answer: Longboots
Question: Is the jellyfish a unicellular or multicellular animal? Answer: Multicellular
Question: What is the name of the horn mass from sea turtle carapaces? Answer: Carapace
Question: Can a toothfish fly? Answer: No
Question: When did Kievan Rus adopt Christianity? Answer: In 988
Question: What is the name of one of the staple crops in world agriculture grown in highly irrigated fields? Answer: Rice
Question: What is the name of the dye necessary for the process of plant photosynthesis? Answer: Chlorophyll
Question: In which section of the digestive tract does digestion begin? Answer: Stomach
Question: To which goddess were the geese kept on the Capitol sacrificed? Answer: Juno
Question: Famous works of this writer are "The Doll" and "Pharaoh" - who is it about? Answer: Agatha christie
Question: Which dynasty reigned in Poland until 1370? Answer: Piast
Question: Which political activist in 1929-30 founded and was editor-in-chief of "Gazeta Polska"? Answer: Juliusz mieros
Question: How many minutes does a half of a soccer match last? Answer: 45
Question: On which continent is the republic of Malawi located? Answer: Africa
Question: Which Russian naturalist, philosopher and poet was born in 1711 and a university in Moscow was named after him? Answer: Mikhail lomonos
Question: The opponent of which detective was the evil genius Professor Moriarty? Answer: Sherlock Holmes
Question: How did the Amazons mutilate themselves in order to pull the bowstring better? Answer: They cut off one
Question: What is the name of the highest-ranking diplomatic post? Answer: Ambassador
Question: What kind of music was popularized by Bob Marley? Answer: Reggae
Question: What was the title of the most distinguished journal of the royal reform camp, which came out in 1765-85 and was edited by Ignacy Krasicki, among others? Answer:
Question: Who constructed the glider? Answer: The Wright brothers
Question: Do bryophytes belong to the plant or animal kingdom? Answer: Plant
Question: What is the highest peak in the Gorce Mountains? Answer: Rysy
Question: How many players does a soccer team consist of? Answer: 11
Question: In which athletic discipline is Tomasz Majewski successful? Answer: Pole vault
Question: What did Jankiel play in "Pan Tadeusz"? Answer: A violin
Question: Did Gall Anonim write the chronicle of Poland in Latin or Polish? Answer: Latin
Question: Who was the judge in the mythological dispute over the apple of discord? Answer: Eris
Question: Is Poland's largest lake - Sniardwy - more than 100 km² in size? Answer: Yes
Question: The capital of which country is Ulaanbaatar? Answer: Mongolia
Question: Is field field hockey an Olympic discipline? Answer: Yes
Question: What was the name of the hero of Verne's novel, who bet that he would circumnavigate the world in 80 days? Answer: Phileas Fogg
Question: Which painter created the "Self-Portrait with Bandaged Ear"? Answer: Vincent van gogh
Question: What is the name of a substance that speeds up or delays a chemical reaction, but is not itself part of the final products? Answer: Catalyst
Question: What name did Andrzej Kmicic take in an effort to hide his identity tainted by his collaboration with the Radziwills? Answer: Jan zygm
Question: Did Mickiewicz and Goethe meet in person? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the first period of the Paleozoic called? Answer: Cambrian
Question: From which country did the cancan originate? Answer: France
Question: What is the word derived from Czech for the storage space in an apartment under the ceiling? Answer: Slota
Question: What was the name of the big U.S. bank whose failure in October 2008 caused the financial crisis? Answer: Lehman brothers
Question: What was the compact formation of heavily-armed infantry used by the ancient Greek and Macedonian armies called? Answer: Phalanx
Question: What is the name of the international language created in 1887 by Ludwig Zamenhof? Answer: Esperanto
Question: How many times in a year does the Earth orbit the Sun? Answer: 365
Question: What is the name of the action to restore the monetary unit to its former value? Answer: Devaluation
Question: What is the moving part of the trombone pipe called? Answer: Slide
Question: What color was the submarine from the movie and the song by the group "The Beatles"? Answer: Yellow
Question: What is the name of the city in Bavaria where music festivals are held annually in the theater erected by Richard Wagner? Answer: Bayreuth
Question: Through which lake does the Rhine River flow? Answer: Lake Constance
Question: Does South Korea border China? Answer: Yes
Question: Doctor Judym is a character from which novel by Stefan Żeromski? Answer: The doctor of the
Question: What is a stopwatch used to measure? Answer: Time
Question: Whose name is the Old Theater in Krakow named after? Answer: Juliusz Sł
Question: What color was the statue of the bullock deity worshipped by the Israelites? Answer: Red
Question: What is the title of Mikhail Bulgakov's novel, which combines the image of post-revolutionary Russia with biblical and Faustian motifs? Answer: Master and Margarita
Question: Is the cosine function the inverse of the sine function? Answer: No
Question: Is Mickey Mouse a he or a she? Answer: He
Question: By which sea is Eritrea located? Answer: Red sea
Question: In which century did the three partitions of Poland take place? Answer: 18th
Question: In which European city did the subway first start? Answer: London
Question: The capital of which country is Ankara? Answer: Turkey
Question: In which city is the famous Hermitage museum located? Answer: St petersburg
Question: What was the name of Kurosawa, the famous Japanese director? Answer: Akira
Question: Which country is called Suomi in its language? Answer: Finland
Question: The three basic principles of drama construction are unity of time, place and what else? Answer: Action
Question: From which city did St. Thomas, the 13th-century philosopher and theologian, come? Answer: Naples
Question: In which country in the 1950s.did the so-called Makkartism develop in domestic politics? Answer: Egypt
Question: Which country's army did Napoleon smash at Jena in 1806? Answer: Prussia
Question: The plot of which comedy is partly set in Shufland? Answer: The merry wives
Question: Is cypress a coniferous or deciduous tree? Answer: Coniferous
Question: What does the Latin saying "medice cura te ipsum" mean? Answer: Let the doctor look
Question: What is the name of the circular hole in the center of the iris of the eye? Answer: Pupil
Question: After which world war was the League of Nations established? Answer: World War I
Question: What is the name of the snow figure and the big foamy sea wave? Answer: Snowman
Question: In which province is Reda located? Answer: Ontario
Question: What was the name of the third U.S.-made space shuttle? Answer: Discovery
Question: In what year did Krzysztof Kamil Baczynski, the leading poet of the wartime generation, die? Answer: 1941
Question: In which city is the UN headquarters located? Answer: New york
Question: Which Polish uprising was led by Romuald Traugutt? Answer: The Silesian U
Question: What is the name of Israel's foreign intelligence service, established in 1951? Answer: Mossad
Question: What is the name of the second source stream of the Vistula besides the Black Vistula? Answer: Bystrzy
Question: What are the machine components that support rotating shafts or axles and reduce friction called? Answer: Bearings
Question: From which dynasty was King Charles I of England descended? Answer: Plantagenet
Question: Which Shakespearean character did Leonardo DiCaprio play in 1996? Answer: Romeo
Question: Complete the proverb: "hand of hand..."? Answer: Makes light work
Question: What is the name of Sicily's highest peak and volcano? Answer: Etna
Question: What was the name of the men's short-legged sports pants worn in the past that were fastened below the knees? Answer: Knickerbock
Question: Which ancient ruler was to guard against the ides of March according to the oracle? Answer: Julius Caesar
Question: What three-letter acronym does the International Ski Federation subscribe to? Answer: FIS
Question: What was the pseudonym of actor Louis Napoleon Sosnovsky? Answer: Louis sosa
Question: What is the name of a semiconductor device with at least three electrodes that has the property of amplifying electrical signals? Answer: Diode
Question: What do we call butterfly larvae with a segmented, soft, elongated body with a distinct head? Answer: Caterpillar
Question: The author of which Russian novel refused to accept the Nobel Prize? Answer: Maxim gorky
Question: What is the opposite of sympathy? Answer: Antipathy
Question: Which city is the headquarters of the WHO? Answer: Geneva
Question: What military rank did Michal Wolodyjowski have in the last part of Sienkiewicz's trilogy? Answer: Colonel
Question: What was the name of the father of Ophelia, the beloved of Hamlet in Shakespeare's tragedy? Answer: Polonius
Question: Which country did Warsaw Pact troops enter in 1968? Answer: Czechoslovakia
Question: What was the inscription on the cross of Jesus? Answer: Iesus Naz
Question: How many horses was the convertible harnessed with? Answer: Two
Question: In what year of the last century was penicillin discovered? Answer: 1928
Question: What is the name of the stone statues of women with a cup or horn in their hands placed on barrows in the Eurasian steppes? Answer: Caryatids
Question: Which party did Helmut Kohl come from? Answer: Christian democrat (ic
Question: Whose name were the Polish national uprising, Australia's highest mountain and one of Australia's national parks named after? Answer: Kosciuszko
Question: What is the name of the Negro American instrument, a ragged chordophone with a round membrane-covered resonance box with a long neck and 4-9 strings? Answer: Kora
Question: Africa is mostly in the eastern or western hemisphere? Answer: Eastern
Question: In which city was the Georges Pompidou National Cultural Center established? Answer: Paris
Question: Who published the bible in print in the mid-15th century? Answer: William tyndale
Question: Does Iraq border Kuwait? Answer: Yes
Question: Every how many years is the World Cup held? Answer: 4
Question: Who on behalf of the Third Reich signed the act of unconditional surrender on May 8, 1945? Answer: (Hermann)
Question: What were the names of the old rowing and sailing boats used by the Zaporozhian Cossacks? Answer: Chayka
Question: Who is the author of the passionate book entitled. "Aquarium," describing work and training in the Soviet GRU? Answer: Alexander solzhenits
Question: What was the name of Stefan Zeromski's daughter? Answer: Zofia
Question: What was the name of the founder of the first modern theory of evolution? Answer: Charles darwin
Question: What are the titled parts of "Lalka" narrated by Ignacy Rzecki? Answer: The little mermaid
Question: What was the name of the French painter Gauguin? Answer: Paul
Question: Of how many parts (songs, books) is "The Odyssey" composed? Answer: 24
Question: What is the name of the international jazz music festival held annually in Warsaw? Answer: Warsaw jazz festival
Question: From which continent do the Masai originate? Answer: Africa
Question: What is the common name of the Order of St. Paul the First Hermit, founded in 1225? Answer: Paulines
Question: What is the name of the carrot root dye? Answer: Saffron
Question: What is the common word for a bunch of flowers and the smell of wine? Answer: Bouquet
Question: Does silver float in mercury or sink? Answer: It floats
Question: How many shillings was the pound sterling by 1971? Answer: 20
Question: Was tithing a tribute paid to the church or to the king? Answer: To the church
Question: What was the name of the group of reptiles, of which only crocodiles are still alive today, and included, in addition, the extinct thecodonts, dinosaurs and pterosaurs; they appeared in the Permian? Answer: Archosauria
Question: Which river delta has depressions in Poland? Answer: Vistula
Question: What is the name of an expression consisting of two or more words that are close or synonymous? Answer: Synonym
Question: Which American cosmonaut stood first on the surface of the moon? Answer: Neil Armstrong
Question: What is the name of the main character in Juliusz Słowacki's drama "Kordian"? Answer: Kordian
Question: What is the name of the currency of the U.S., Australia, Canada and New Zealand? Answer: Dollar
Question: Who is the author of "100 Figures Who Had the Greatest Impact on the History of Mankind"? Answer: Michael heller
Question: Which muse was the mother of Orpheus? Answer: Calliope
Question: From which plant is opium obtained? Answer: Poppy
Question: Which German emperor established the Polish archbishopric in Gniezno? Answer: Henry III
Question: In which country was the Order of St. Stanislaus established in 1765? Answer: Poland
Question: Who was Maximilian Robespierre by profession, one of the Jacobin leaders? Answer: Lawyer
Question: What car produced at FSO hit Polish roads in 1978? Answer: Fiat 126p
Question: In which city in Poland is the Actor Song Review held? Answer: Warsaw
Question: Resin for industrial purposes is obtained from coniferous or deciduous trees? Answer: Coniferous
Question: Please provide the chemical symbol for oxygen. Answer: O
Question: What name derived from an archipelago of islands in the Atlantic Ocean is given to shorts that reach almost to the knees? Answer: Bermuda shorts
Question: Which king moved the capital from Krakow to Warsaw? Answer: Sigismund
Question: Is a frog an amphibian or a reptile? Answer: Amphibian
Question: How old is Christmastime? Answer: 25
Question: How many years does it take to attend a Polish elementary school? Answer: 8 years
Question: "Stars and stripes," or stars and stripes, is the name of the flag of which country? Answer: USA
Question: Which university was founded earlier: Warsaw or Vilnius? Answer: Vilnius
Question: Was actress Ingrid Bergman a compatriot of director Ingmar Bergman? Answer: Yes
Question: At the Battle of Yellow Waters in 1848, were the Poles or the Cossacks victorious? Answer: Cossacks
Question: What is the name of the director, creator of the film "Venus in the Bath"? Answer: Jean Renoir
Question: What is the name of an individual who has no natural pigments (pigments)? Answer: Albino
Question: Which country does the "Silk Road" lead to from Europe? Answer: China
Question: What is the name of the device used to display text or graphic information from the computer on the screen? Answer: Monitor
Question: Do marmots living in Poland go into winter sleep? Answer: Yes
Question: Is andantino a faster or slower tempo than andante? Answer: Slower
Question: Rapid economic growth, recovery we call a crash or boom? Answer: Crash
Question: What is the name of Mai's bee's best friend? Answer: Kumatetsu
Question: What was Al Capone convicted of? Answer: Tax evasion
Question: What is the name of the New York City neighborhood located between Hudson Bay and Long Island? Answer: The bronx
Question: What was the name of the American aviator who was the first to fly solo across the Atlantic in 1927? Answer: Charles Lindbergh
Question: A resident of the Dominican Republic is...? Answer: A Dominican
Question: Was the construction of the Great Wall of China started before or after Christ? Answer: Before
Question: What is the name of the singer of the band Bajm? Answer: Jonny
Question: What nickname did the characters of the TV series "Four Armored and a Dog" give to their tank? Answer: The Tank
Question: Was Poseidon the brother or son of Zeus? Answer: Son
Question: Istanbul, Byzantium, Constantinople - are these the names of the same city? Answer: Yes
Question: In what century did the Thirteen Years' War take place between Poland and the Teutonic Order? Answer: 14th
Question: Which well-known Polish politician is the author of the book "Faith and Wine"? Answer: Lech walesa
Question: What is the name of a two-humped camel? Answer: Bactrian
Question: How is the representative of the country's original population defined as opposed to the later immigrant population? Answer: Native
Question: Who became Russia's first president? Answer: Boris yeltsin
Question: What is the name of the circuit that converts a signal from the form used by a computer to a form convenient for long-distance transmission? Answer: Modem
Question: What is the name of the Christmas Eve dish made from wheat with poppy seeds and honey? Answer: Stollen
Question: What is the name of the Italian Baroque composer who composed, among other things. 4 violin concertos dedicated to the four seasons of the year? Answer: Vivaldi
Question: In what year did the British transatlantic steamer "Titanic" sink? Answer: 1912
Question: Near which island did the Greeks defeat the Persians in a famous naval battle in 480 BC? Answer: Salamis
Question: The singer of which band was Kurt Cobain? Answer: Nirvana
Question: Where was the seat of the Greek gods located? Answer: Mount olympus
Question: Ophthalmology is the science of defects and diseases of what organ? Answer: Eye
Question: What was the name of the English corsair ennobled by Queen Elizabeth II and elevated to the dignity of a vice admiral? Answer: Sir Francis drake
Question: Who, shooting from a slingshot, killed the giant Goliath? Answer: David
Question: Is bamboo a grass or a tree? Answer: Bamboo is a
Question: What was the name of the 16th century Turkish sultan nicknamed the Magnificent? Answer: Suleiman
Question: Which part of the body does the balaclava cover? Answer: Head
Question: Can hummingbirds walk? Answer: No
Question: Which party in the commission of inquiry into the Rywin Affair was represented by Renata Beger? Answer: The communist party
Question: What coat of arms did Mr. Zagloba seal himself with? Answer: A silver seal with
Question: In which athletic discipline did Wladyslaw Komar win an Olympic gold medal? Answer: High jump
Question: What was the name of the temple dedicated to all the gods in ancient Rome? Answer: Pantheon
Question: Which king succeeded Henry de Valois on the Polish throne in 1575? Answer: Sigismund
Question: Was American physicist of Italian descent Enrico Fermi a Nobel Prize winner? Answer: Yes
Question: Which Roman emperor before suicide said: "What artist dies in my person"? Answer: Nero
Question: Who was the first host of the Polish version of the quiz show "Va Banque"? Answer: Krzyszto
Question: Is Kenya a kingdom, a republic or a federation? Answer: Republic
Question: Are lynx and wildcat the names of the same animal? Answer: No
Question: What is a mixture of aggregate, cement and water called? Answer: Concrete
Question: From which temple does the Pope give the Urbi et Orbi? Answer: St. Peter's
Question: What was the Polish theatrical title of the film "Dirty Dancing" that brought Partick Swayze recognition? Answer: Dancing in the
Question: "Young Lions" is a novel by which American writer? Answer: Ernest hemmingway
Question: Are the popular pistachios fruits or seeds? Answer: Seeds
Question: In what century was the Suez Canal built? Answer: 19th
Question: What is the name of the material that is an allotropic variety of elemental carbon? Answer: Graphite
Question: Which physical quantity is measured in meters per second squared? Answer: Acceleration
Question: What is the name of the era in the history of the earth, divided into 6 periods: Cambrian, Ordovician, Silurian, Devonian, Carboniferous, Permian? Answer: Paleozoic
Question: In which work did Jan Kochanowski describe the Tartar invasion of Podolia? Answer: The Chronicle
Question: What was the name of the Italian traveler who reached China in the 13th century? Answer: Marco polo
Question: What shape does a window on a ship usually have, called a porthole? Answer: Oval
Question: According to the saying what is not for the dog? Answer: The bone
Question: Is the village chief appointed by the mayor or elected by the residents? Answer: Elected
Question: What is the name of the most famous band in the history of rock and roll, originating from Liverpool? Answer: The beatles
Question: Which of the great chiefs of antiquity became famous for using battle elephants in the war against Rome, which he led across the Alps? Answer: Hannibal
Question: Is Boleslaw Prus the author of the novella titled. "Antek"? Answer: No
Question: Finish the proverb: "When you come among the crows, you must caw like...". Answer: A crow
Question: Which grain is used to make pearl groats? Answer: Barley
Question: What is the name of the star that is closest to Earth? Answer: The sun
Question: What part of speech are the words "and", "and" and "here"? Answer: Conjunction
Question: What is the name of the comet that visits our solar system regularly every 76 years? Answer: Halley's Com
Question: Which dynasty took the French throne after the Valois? Answer: Bourbons
Question: How many planets are in our solar system? Answer: Nine
Question: What was the name of the 1980s rock group led by Grzegorz Ciechowski? Answer: The jesus and
Question: Pluralia tantum are nouns only plural or singular? Answer: No
Question: In what century did the troops of the First Crusade capture Jerusalem? Answer: 11th
Question: What was the name of the American jazz artist Fitzgerald? Answer: F Scott Fitzgerald
Question: What do the stars on the U.S. flag symbolize? Answer: The original 13 colonies
Question: Jan Kochanowski is a Polish poet of the Renaissance period. Who was Andrzej Kochanowski, the author of the first Polish translation of the "Aeneid," to Jan? Answer: Virgil
Question: Which district of London is the center of the financial system, home to many financial, stock and currency exchanges? Answer: The City
Question: Into which sea does the Rhine drain? Answer: North sea
Question: What is the name of the longest tributary of the Oder River? Answer: Warta
Question: How much is one to the power of three? Answer: One
Question: Where is the annual French International Tennis Championships held? Answer: Paris
Question: What is the name of the unit of currency of India, Nepal and Pakistan? Answer: Rupee
Question: Which planet in our solar system was discovered last? Answer: Pluto
Question: Euphemics is a branch of medicine or zoology? Answer: Zoology
Question: Is a banjo a plucked string instrument or a wind instrument? Answer: Plucked string
Question: At what age did sculptor Jan Wnęk take his first flights on his own hang glider? Answer: At the age of
Question: Caracals are a breed of which animals? Answer: Cat
Question: Is Szrenica a peak in the Tatras, Beskids, Karkonosze or Bieszczady Mountains? Answer: Tatras
Question: What was the title of the 1960s TV series whose main character was the captain of the starship Enterprise? Answer: Star trek
Question: What was the name of the chemist who disproved the phlogiston theory? Answer: Joseph Priestley
Question: What are the names of the low-growing peoples inhabiting the forests of Equatorial Africa - nomads, gatherers and hunters? Answer: Pygmies
Question: Goggleback is the common name of which bird? Answer: Woodpecker
Question: What else do we call a laugus-dyngus? Answer: A kissing day
Question: In which state does the Grand Canyon of the Colorado River extend? Answer: Arizona
Question: Which poet was born in Warsaw in 1915 and published a book of poems "Conscience moved" in 1990? Answer: Wystan h
Question: In what century did the Gothic style begin to develop in architecture? Answer: 12th
Question: What is measured in millibars? Answer: Atmospheric pressure
Question: Who directed the film "Passion"? Answer: Brian de palma
Question: What is the jeweler's measure of mass equal to 0.2 g called? Answer: Carat
Question: Which country does the group of aging directors in the movie "Blue Like the Black Sea" go to on a trip? Answer: Russia
Question: In which German city does the late Baroque Zwinger palace complex stand? Answer: Dresden
Question: In which city is Frederic Chopin buried? Answer: Warsaw
Question: How many colors does the flag of Bangladesh consist of? Answer: 2
Question: What is the name of the unit of measurement of the plane angle, used mainly in nautical navigation, equal to 1/32 of a full angle? Answer: Point
Question: Which museum houses Hammurabi's stele, on which his code was engraved? Answer: Louvre
Question: What is the name of the area at the mouth of the forked river? Answer: The delta
Question: How often is the Sabbath celebrated? Answer: Every seventh day
Question: What is the name of the tower in Tokyo similar to the Eiffel Tower? Answer: Tokyo tower
Question: What is the name of the tendon that connects the triceps calf muscle to the heel bone? Answer: Achilles
Question: The capital of which country is Islamabad? Answer: Pakistan
Question: What is the name of the outer layer of the Earth's globe, which includes the crust and the upper layer of the mantle? The word comes from the Greek. Answer: Lithosphere
Question: Which field of science did the Brain Tumor deal with? Answer: Oncology
Question: Who was the king of Troy during the war with the Greeks? Answer: Priam
Question: A monument to a small insurgent in Warsaw reminds you of the Warsaw Uprising or the November Uprising? Answer: Warsaw Uprising
Question: What is the name of the science that deals with reconstructing and predicting climate based on the size of annual tree growth (rings)? Answer: Dendrochronology
Question: In which industry are the Effie awards given? Answer: Advertising
Question: What is the name of Little Bear's brightest star? Answer: Alpha
Question: Who transported the souls of the dead across the Styx? Answer: Charon
Question: Is the dolphin a mammal? Answer: Yes
Question: How many arms does the Cross of the Order of Polonia Restituta have? Answer: Four
Question: How many piano concertos did Frederic Chopin create? Answer: 2
Question: In what century was the Royal Albert Hall building constructed? Answer: 19th century
Question: What is the name of the spoken text of an opera, operetta, oratorio, cantata? Answer: Libretto
Question: In what year was the first Nobel Prize for literature awarded? Answer: 1901
Question: How many sixteenths does an entire note consist of? Answer: Four
Question: What do we call annihilation, a mass extermination of people, a crime against humanity aimed at exterminating specific groups of people because of their race, nationality, religion? Answer: Genocide
Question: What was the name of the German theologian who promulgated 95 theses criticizing the selling of indulgences for the construction of St. Peter's Basilica? Answer: Martin luther
Question: Who lived at 221b Baker Street in London? Answer: Sherlock Holmes
Question: On which continent is the historical land called Flanders located? Answer: Europe
Question: What trap is featured in the title of the blockbuster with Bruce Willis? Answer: Die hard
Question: In which EU country did the "Five Star Movement" party enter parliament? Answer: Italy
Question: What are the names of the Jewish books of religious laws and regulations? Answer: Torah and Tal
Question: In which city is the Hagia Sophia located? Answer: Istanbul
Question: What was the name of the Polish military formations that Jan Henryk Dabrowski set out to create on January 9, 1797? Answer: The legion of
Question: Who uttered the words "Hail Caesar, you are greeted by those going to your death"? Answer: Brutus
Question: How many full years did World War I last? Answer: 4 years
Question: The banks of which river are connected by the Vasco da Gama Bridge? Answer: Tagus
Question: What is 1/1000th of the total called? Answer: Per mille
Question: What is the name of the author of the series of adventures of Tom Wilmowski, who travels with his friend in different parts of the world? Answer: Janusz korc
Question: What kind of account does a Catholic make before confession? Answer: Confession
Question: The great love of which Polish poet was Maryla Wereszczakówna? Answer: Adam Mickiewicz
Question: Which gas does the air contain more of: oxygen or nitrogen? Answer: Oxygen
Question: What is the name of the German steel, mining and engineering conglomerate, founded in 1811, which later became one of the world's largest weapons manufacturers, also supplying the Nazi army until 1945? Answer:
Question: What is one of a pair of words with opposite meanings called? Answer: Antonym
Question: Who was the chancellor of West Germany before Helmut Kohl? Answer: Willy Brandt
Question: What else do we call the Pacific Ocean? Answer: The big blue
Question: What is the name of the province of Ethiopia that formed an independent state in 1993? Answer: Eritrea
Question: What else is thyme called? Answer: Thyme
Question: What was the motto of the Musketeers? Answer: Un pour tous,
Question: Which country besides South Korea hosted the 2002 World Cup? Answer: Japan
Question: What is the name of the branch of linguistics that includes the study of the sound side of language? Answer: Phonetics
Question: Please complete the adage: "He who digs holes under whom...". Answer: The Devil
Question: Where did the Polish army defeat the Turks after the Vienna Victory? Answer: Battle of Vienna
Question: On the territory of which country rises the highest peak in the Hindu Kush, which is called Tirich Mir? Answer: Afghanistan
Question: Please provide the name of the first Polish Olympic boxing champion. Answer: Wladyslaw
Question: Does the lora, a freight car, have a roof? Answer: No
Question: What is the name of the indigenous people of New Guinea and nearby islands? Answer: Papuans
Question: What is the name of the UN statute adopted in 1945 in San Francisco, formulating the goals, objectives, principles of operation and activities of the UN? Answer: United nations charter
Question: From what language does the word "abracadabra" come? Answer: Arabic
Question: What is the chemical symbol for carbon? Answer: C
Question: What do the words "Dies irae" mean? Answer: Day of wrath
Question: What was the title of Justyna Steczkowska's debut album? Answer: Justyna
Question: Who played the main male roles in the films "Dr. Kildare" and "Shogun"? Answer: Richard chamberlain
Question: How many years is the term of the Sejm in Poland? Answer: 4 years
Question: What is the name of one of the world's most famous opera houses located in Milan? Answer: La Scala
Question: What was the name of the mythical king of Elida, at whose house one of the jobs Heracles had to perform? Answer: Eurystheus
Question: What unit in shipping is a cable? Answer: A ton
Question: Which city is the capital of Estonia? Answer: Tallinn
Question: In which country is the Reuters Agency headquartered? Answer: United Kingdom
Question: What is characterized by a lack of elasticity, has no definite shape and always assumes the shape of the vessel it is in? Answer: A liquid
Question: What is the Latin name for the transition of property from ecclesiastical to secular authority? Answer: Desamortization
Question: Who did the Poles fight in 1241 at Legnica? Answer: The Teutonic
Question: What do we call agriculture aimed at improving the quality and healthiness of agricultural products and halting environmental degradation? Answer: Sustainable agriculture
Question: Which famous American writer wrote "The Grapes of Wrath"? Answer: John steinbeck
Question: What was the family name of Queen Elizabeth's spouse, Prince Philip? Answer: Mountbatten
Question: What kind of degree is obtained after conducting a postdoctoral dissertation? Answer: Doctorate
Question: From which dynasty was King Henry VIII of England descended? Answer: Tudor
Question: Who, besides Jan Matejko, painted the post of Poland's rulers? Answer: Stanislaw Wysp
Question: What is the name of the grouping that exercised bloody rule in Cambodia in the second half of the 1970s? Answer: Khmer rouge
Question: In which sport is the prize for victory the Davis Cup? Answer: Tennis
Question: What fruits are used to produce kirsh vodka? Answer: Cherries
Question: The Republic of Indonesia crosses the equator, the Tropic of Cancer or the Tropic of Capricorn? Answer: Equator
Question: Did Al Capone, the American gangster, die in prison? Answer: No
Question: What do we call rock material transported and deposited by a glacier? Answer: Glacial drift
Question: By what name did Princess Sophie Augusta Friedrich von Anhalt-Zerbst go down in history? Answer: Catherine the great
Question: What is the name of the sled used in mountain rescue to transport the injured? Answer: Rescue sled
Question: Is the subtraction alternating? Answer: No
Question: Who lived earlier: Casimir the Restorer or Casimir the Great? Answer: Casimir the Rest
Question: What did Prometheus steal from the gods and give to humans? Answer: Fire
Question: Since the death of Jerzy Giedroyc, who has been performing the duties of editor of the Parisian Culture? Answer:
Question: On which Polish Radio program is the "Radio House of Culture" broadcast? Answer: Radio 2
Question: Who was Olivia Newton-John's partner in the musical "Grease"? Answer: John Travolta
Question: Are starfish predatory animals? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the Gollob brothers' family sport? Answer: Hockey
Question: At which Allied conference was it decided to divide Germany into four occupation zones? Answer: Yalta
Question: A resident of Szczawnica is...? Answer: A szcza
Question: What is the name of the rule exercised by a small privileged group derived from the aristocracy? Answer: Oligarchy
Question: To which dynasty did Augustus II the Strong and Augustus III reign in Poland? Answer: Saxon
Question: In what field was Isaac Singer awarded the Nobel Prize? Answer: Chemistry
Question: Charlie Chaplin was under or over 80 at the time he received his lifetime achievement Oscar? Answer: Over 80
Question: What is the name of a composition made of pieces of colored glass fused with lead? Answer: Mosaic
Question: Who defeated the Roman leader Pompey the Great at Pharsalos in 48 BC? Answer: Julius caesar
Question: How much was the fee for transporting souls across the River Styx? Answer: A coin
Question: What is the name of a military operation that involves blowing up armed troops in enemy territory? Answer: Blitzkrieg
Question: What is the square root of the number 25? Answer: 5
Question: Is Cambridge University located in the American city of the same name? Answer: No
Question: Whose attribute is the fisherman's ring? Answer: The Pope
Question: Was penicillin discovered before or after World War I? Answer: Before
Question: Is the Bastille still preserved today? Answer: No
Question: What musical instrument does Vanessa Mae play at concerts? Answer: Violin
Question: Did aurochs live in Poland? Answer: Yes
Question: The co-creator of which direction in French painting was Henri Matisse? Answer: Fauvism
Question: In what year was the Auschwitz Birkenau camp liberated? Answer: 27 January 1945
Question: What, in sports, is the positioning of the hands to protect against an opponent's blow called? Answer: Guard
Question: Who was the Republican party's candidate in the 1996 U.S. presidential election? Answer: Bob dole
Question: What fluid property is a viscometer used to measure? Answer: Viscosity
Question: What is the official name of the Germany reunified in 1990? Answer: Federal republic of Germany
Question: Which rank in the navy is the highest? Answer: Admiral of the fleet
Question: Which U.S. state is located on eight major islands and 120 smaller ones? Answer: Hawaii
Question: What is the name of the ribbon sewn on a uniform or jacket to replace a decoration? Answer: Ribbon bar
Question: Pluto lost its status as a planet in 2006. Which planet is currently the smallest in the Solar System? Answer: Mercury
Question: What is the name of the thin, long pasta that is the national dish in Italy? Answer: Spaghetti
Question: The name of which Hungarian dance appears in the title of Imre Kalman's famous operetta? Answer: The csardas
Question: Which vegetable has more calories: cauliflower or potato? Answer: Cauliflower
Question: Which programming language is named after a famous French scientist? Answer: Pascal
Question: In which constellation is Alioth the brightest star? Answer: Canis minor
Question: What is the name of a submarine-launched missile equipped with its own propulsion system? Answer: Tomahawk
Question: What is the name of a rigid hat, a cylinder that can be folded flat and stretched by a special spring? Answer: Top Hat
Question: Whose headquarters is the Capitol in Washington, D.C.? Answer: The United States government
Question: Who was St. Luke, the author of the Gospels and the Acts of the Apostles, by profession? Answer: A doctor
Question: What area is the Wimbledon tennis tournament played on? Answer: Grass
Question: How do people moving per pedes get around? Answer: On foot
Question: In which partition did Lviv find itself after the Third Partition of Poland? Answer: Soviet Union
Question: Is the pope the bishop of Rome? Answer: Yes
Question: What is the name of the girl, a protégé and friend of Leon the Professional from Luc Besson's film? Answer: Natalie portman
Question: What is the plural of the word protocol? Answer: Protocols
Question: Was Giovanni Lorenzo Bernini an outstanding artist of the Renaissance or Baroque era? Answer: Baroque
Question: Is the dulcimer a string instrument or a percussion instrument? Answer: String
Question: Does life imprisonment apply in Poland? Answer: Yes
Question: Who is the author of the 17th century painting "Three Graces"? Answer: Canova
Question: Name the Arabic honorific title literally meaning "man of old age"? Answer: Shaykh
Question: In what year was the Warsaw Stock Exchange established? Answer: 1817
Question: What is the Latin name for forcibly removing someone from occupied premises? Answer: Ejectment
Question: Who was Bronislaw Pilsudski to Józef Piłsudski? Answer: Father
Question: What kind of troops carried out the famous attack on the Spanish artillery in the Samosierra Gorge? Answer: British
Question: With a cell phone, can the photo be sent via SMS or MMS? Answer: SMS
Question: To oppress someone, to outwit someone - is to make him what color? Answer: Red
Question: How many players are involved in a game of checkers? Answer: Two
Question: In which cemetery do Maria Konopnicka and Artur Grottger rest? Answer: Powazki cemetery
Question: What is the basic ingredient in mustard? Answer: Mustard seeds
Question: Which country is home to the longest navigable canal in the world? Answer: China
Question: Please provide the Polish name of the element natrium. Answer: Natrium
Question: Which show at the National Theater was taken off the poster in early 1968? Answer: Hair
Question: How many popes have borne both the names John and Paul? Answer: 2
Question: Did the two battles on the Marne take place during World War I or World War II? Answer: World War I
Question: What is the name of the former unit of speed equal to the speed of light in a vacuum? Answer: Celerity
Question: To which country does the Kola Peninsula belong? Answer: Russia
Question: Who was the author of the illustrations to The Little Prince? Answer: Antoine de Saint-Ex
Question: Is Tony Stark a hero transforming into Iron Man or Batman? Answer: Iron man
Question: From which dynasty did Leszek the White and Leszek the Black originate? Answer: Piast
Question: What was the coat of arms of Maciek and Zbyszek of Bogdaniec? Answer: A black eagle
Question: Who composed the symphonic piece "Boléro"? Answer: Maurice ravel
Question: From which ship were the shots fired that gave the signal to storm the Provisional Government headquarters in Petrograd on November 7, 1917? Answer: Aurora
Question: Which god was the ruler on Olympus? Answer: Zeus
Question: How often does the magazine "Politics" appear? Answer: Monthly
Question: What is the name of China's longest river? Answer: Yangtze
Question: Garri Kasparov won the world championship in boxing, wrestling or chess? Answer: Chess
Question: What is the name of the person who replaces the actor in dangerous scenes? Answer: Stuntman
Question: Is xenophilia a dislike or affection toward strangers? Answer: Affection
Question: What color is the pebble that Maryla Rodowicz sings about in the song "Remedium"? Answer: Blue
Question: Who constructed the first pendulum clock in 1657? Answer: Christiaan Huygens
Question: How many sides does the trapezoid have? Answer: 4
Question: In a Polish court, what is the name of a member of the bench, a representative of the public, who cannot preside over the case? Answer: Public prosecutor
Question: What flap of skin protects the eyeball? Answer: The eyelids
Question: What was the name of Pawlak from "His Own"? Answer: Mycroft
Question: Which acid is used in the art of etching? Answer: Hydrochloric
Question: On which large river is Rome located? Answer: Tiber
Question: From which dynasty is Prince Albert II of Monaco descended? Answer: House of Grimaldi
Question: How often does a solar eclipse occur on Mercury? Answer: Every two years
Question: What are the bells at the harness called? Answer: Jingles
Question: Who was the Minister of Industry in Tadeusz Mazowiecki's government that started the reform process? Answer: Tadeusz Maz
Question: Which town did Zbigniew Wodecki refer to in the song as the Polish Barbados? Answer: Gdansk
Question: Which French king was nicknamed the "Sun King"? Answer: Louis xiv
Question: In which camp did Rotmistrz Pilecki co-organize the underground? Answer: Auschwitz
Question: Is China a member of the United Nations? Answer: Yes
Question: What do we call integers that have no other divisors besides self and unity? Answer: Prime
Question: What is the name of cakes made from whipped egg white foam with sugar? Answer: Meringues
Question: How many satellites does Saturn have? Answer: Seventeen
Question: Which Polish team is called the White Star? Answer: Gornik
Question: In what century did the first human balloon flight take place? Answer: 18th century
Question: In what year did Stefan Żeromski die? Answer: 1766
Question: We determine the degree of hardness of minerals on the Mohs scale. Which degree does a diamond have? Answer: 10
Question: What is the term for the Swedish invasion that began in 1655? Answer: The war of the
Question: What was the name of the yacht on which Krystyna Chojnowska-Liskiewicz became the first woman in the world to circumnavigate the Earth alone? Answer: Robin Knox-John
Question: Does the anion have a preponderance of electrons or protons? Answer: Electrons
