What is the name of the first letter of the Greek alphabet?
What is the name of any segment connecting two points of a circle?
In which country does the action of the novel "In Desert and Wilderness" begin?
Were deputies and messengers appointed in ancient states?
What band did Hanka perform in in the film "Wife for an Australian"?
In which state is Mumbai located?
Which side number is carried by the tank Rudy from "The Four Armored"?
What was the engineer Tarkovsky, father of Stas, building in Egypt?
Are the fruits of some cacti edible?
Quartet - that's how many performers?
Which craftsmen appear in Witkacy's last novel?
What is the name of the element with the symbol Bq?
The anthem of which country is the song "The Star-Spangled Banner"?
What was the name of the stiff men's hat with a rounded head and narrow slightly raised brim, fashionable in the second half of the 19th century?
What is the convex or concave surface of a liquid near the walls of a vessel called?
What was the name of the physicist who invented the telephone in 1876?
What is the favorite saying of the Horeszko keyholder Gervase?
Which gas is most abundant in the air?
Does the venomous shawl occur in Poland?
According to the proverb, is the nose for the snuffbox or the snuffbox for the nose?
The intersection point of the axes in the coordinate system is the zero point or the cutoff line?
Who is the author of the painting painted in 1892. "Women of Tahiti?"
What is the name of Fidel Castro's brother, who took over after him?
What does the word allied, derived from the French, mean?
Which tropic crosses Mexico - Cancer or Capricorn?
What is the name of the hill in Paris on which the Sacré-Cœur basilica was built?
What is the Greek name for an assumption that requires verification?
What do the words "Quo vadis" mean?
Which 16th century legendary sorcerer was called the Polish Faust?
What is the name of the poison made from the root of the shawm?
What is the name of Cuba's capital city?
What is the name of the British intelligence agent, the protagonist of Ian Fleming's novel?
In what style was the tombstone of Casimir Jagiellon made?
In what century was the St. Charles Bridge built on the Vidava River?
In which city did Princess Diana die in a car accident?
Does philately also include collecting postcards and stamps?
Who played the character of Maliniak in "Forty Years Old"?
On which continent is the Iberian lynx found?
Who plays Kinga Zduńska in the TV series "M jak miłość"?
In which mountains lie the gates of Chalubinsky?
Which gate is in the title of Roman Polanski's film?
On which Japanese island is the port of Yokohama located?
Please elaborate on the acronym of the CSO, which was established in 1918.
To which country do the islands of Rhodes and Corfu belong?
Did Stanislaw Baranczak translate the works of Shakespeare?
What is the name of the smoking instrument and the top fang of the boar?
Which film by Krzysztof Kieslowski starred Olaf Lubaszenko and Grażyna Szapołowska?
Finish the proverb: "good habit: don't..."?
How much salt do you have to eat with someone to get to know them well?
Which Polish city was not built right away?
Where did the 1917 apparitions take place?
In the sentence: "He quickly jumped over the fence" which word is an adverb?
Is a bioscope a medical device?
On which river are the cities of Grodno and Kaunas located?
What is the name of a descendant of Portuguese or Spanish settlers in South America?
So-called dry ice is the solid form of which chemical compound?
What does ochlocracy mean in Greek?
In which city is the novel "The Prince and the Beggar" by Mark Twain set?
A disciple of which Greek philosopher was Aristippus of Cyrene, the founder of hedonism?
Are Anna Jagiellonka - Duchess of Pomerania and Anna Jagiellonka - Queen of Poland the same person?
What shape is the wimpel, the flag of merchant ships?
Are there mackerel in the Baltic Sea?
In what year during World War II did the Italian government declare war on Hitler?
How many degrees is the sum of the interior angles of the quadrilateral?
What unresolved battle is described in the book "War and Peace"?
Which city in Australia is home to a famous opera house?
Which country donated the Statue of Liberty to the U.S.?
In which field was Steffi Graff successful?
What was the name of the Polish alpine skiing champion who was murdered by the Nazis in 1941 for her participation in the resistance movement?
Baron is a title higher or lower than earl?
Which saint, a fisherman from Bethsaida, is the patron saint of fishermen?
On which continent is Gabon located?
In what century did Genghis Khan live?
From which dynasty was the king who moved Poland's capital from Krakow to Warsaw?
From which continent does the lychee tree originate?
In which state is the Klondike, an area known for gold mining?
What was the name of the Greek god who wore a caduceus?
What is the name of a traditional Jewish hat?
Who in Poland appoints the first president of the Supreme Court?
Where was the battle lost by Napoleon fought in October 1813?
In which country is the Victoria Cross the highest decoration?
Which Johann Strauss operetta has a flying mammal in its title?
Which river is Kazimierz Dolny located on?
What is the name of the highest peak in Beskid Sadecki?
Someone "not in the dark" is someone smart or naive?
What was the name of the chorus leader in ancient Greek theater?
What is the name of a unit in the air force of 2-3 squadrons?
In what year was NATO founded?
What did the factory of astronomer John Hevelius produce?
On which day of the week did Robinson Crusoe meet Friday?
What is the name of the holiday celebrated on October 31 in Anglo-Saxon countries?
In what century did Dunlop invent the rubber tire?
What hatches from a frog's croak?
The world championship in which discipline was defended in 2013 by Sergio Martinez?
Cardinal Richelieu was secretary to which French king?
What material is August Rodin's sculpture "The Thinker" made of?
What is the name of the Polish combat ship that participated in World War II and has been in Gdynia for 40 years?
"Running, shouting Mr. Hilary" - who is the author of these words?
Who was the discoverer of Victoria Falls?
In which month does the remembrance of the so-called "cold gardeners" occur?
What is the name of the electrode connected to the negative pole of the current source?
Does the great crested newt occur in its natural habitat in Poland?
"Something You Did to Athens, Socrates" - whose work is this by?
Which ruler led to Poland's divisive split?
What is the name of the village in which Adam Mickiewicz set the action of "Pan Tadeusz"?
From the milk of which animal is whey called whey made?
What aristocratic title did Sigmund Krasinski wear?
Is a sombrero a hat, a dish or a dance?
Who in Greek mythology was the god of the world of the dead?
What is the name of the President of Ukraine?
In which country in the 1950s was the first credit card issued?
What was the name of the knight of the Round Table blazing with affection for Queen Guinevere, wife of King Arthur?
In which Polish cabaret did the characters of Mr. Czesio, Turecki appear?
To whom were the words directed in "Pan Tadeusz": "ungrateful"?
Are the Cape Verde Islands closer to Africa or Asia?
Who played the title role in Colonel Kwiatkowski?
Which ocean is affected by the Cromwell sea current in the equatorial zone?
What was the name of Captain Nemo's submarine?
"Wind from the East" is part of which book by Stefan Zeromski?
What is the name of the Polish painter of the 19th century, the author of the series of drawings "Polonia"?
Which country is the creator of Gadu-Gadu from?
From which century do the Doors of Gniezno date?
What is the Latin name for opacity of the lens of the eye?
Who was the successor of Michal Korybut Wisniowiecki?
What is the name of the special court to which the prime minister, president and ministers are accountable?
What does the phrase "manu propria" mean in Latin?
What is the name of the mythical animal with one horn, a symbol of happiness and innocence?
Patron of which great composer was King Ludwig II of Bavaria?
What was the nickname of Italian painter Bernardo Belotto?
What was the name of the band in which Marek Grechuta performed?
On which islands, according to Jan Brzechwa, was a donkey seen being carried by an ant?
Who used a pendulum experiment to demonstrate the existence of the Earth's rotational motion?
On the border of which country and Egypt is the city of Abu Simbel with the temple of Ramses II?
Was Napoleon III an emperor?
The statue of which goddess was Fidias' largest sculpture besides Zeus?
Can a blood alcohol test be conducted without the consent of the test subject?
How many wings do fleas have?
In what century was the first gramophone record factory established?
What yellow flower symbolizes the commemoration of the anniversary of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising?
Which apostle doubted the resurrection?
Where did Judas come from?
What was the protagonist of the film "Wanted, Wanted" accused of?
What was the name of the first day of each month in the Roman calendar?
In what year was the so-called Letter 34 signed, addressed to the Prime Minister of the People's Republic of Poland?
What is the image of the dead Jesus resting on Mary's lap called?
What was the name of the director of the film "Citizen Kane"?
What is the plot of the film Vinci?
Are Elgin's marbles a temple in Athens or a collection of ancient Greek sculptures?
In which European capital is there an Edward Munch museum?
Who launched the Reformation in the Church in 1517?
Which animal is the symbol of a bull market in the stock market?
Does burnout occur in ice hockey?
What is the name of the wooden superstructure at the bow or stern of old sailing ships?
From which century does the direction in furniture making called Biedermeier originate?
What was the name of the founder of Polish Humanitarian Action?
Who appoints the president of the NIK?
In which country in 1958 did the political campaign called the Great Leap Forward begin?
Which Polish king defeated the Turks at Vienna?
Where does a minter work?
What is the abbreviation for the Association of Polish Architects?
What is the name of the actor who twice played the role of the barbarian Conan?
Which soup is a symbol of things very cheap?
In which Polish city is Europe's largest castle complex located?
Is "Pan Tadeusz" written in illocutionary style?
In what field did Alexander Solzhenitsyn receive the Nobel Prize?
Which fish does an unserious, unbalanced person have in his head?
What animals is the manhunt for in the title of Jacek Kaczmarski's song?
From which cosmodrome did Yuri Gagarin take off?
Do we have an active volcano in Poland?
On the tail of which bird did Hera place the eyes of the giant Argos?
Was Herod I the Great a king of Judea?
What is the name of the settlement where Lasse, Bosse, Anna and Olaf lived in the book by Astrid Lindgren?
In which European city is there a university named Sorbonne?
Which trees is Rogalin near Poznań known for?
What sounds in the reeds in Jan Brzechwa's fable?
What is the name of the Polish astronaut, General Hermaszewski?
Can a circle be described on every triangle?
What is the name of the virus that causes polio?
Can an MEP be a member of the Polish parliament at the same time?
What military rank did Henryk Dobrzanski, a.k.a. Hubal, have?
Sublimate is the chloride of which metal?
What do we colloquially call the last back teeth?
What is the name of the highest mountain massif in the Sudetes?
What is the name of the thigh-length waterproof fishing pants?
In which ancient city was the Tower of Babel built?
Which work of the Trilogy did Hoffmann film first?
Which body in Poland elects the members of the State Tribunal?
What name derived from the founder's name is given to the Order of Friars Minor?
Which king found Poland wooden and left it brick?
What position did Otto von Bismarck hold?
What is the name of the letter of the Morse alphabet denoted as three dashes?
A knight's servant preparing for knightly status is...?
Is flax grown in Poland?
What nationality is Paulo Coelho?
What was the name of the Hungarian architect, the inventor of the stacking cube?
Do crocodiles live in China?
Under what form did Zeus seduce Danae trapped in the tower?
Did Helena compete with Athena and Aphrodite in a beauty contest?
In which country is Brno located?
In what year was the song "Red Poppies on Monte Cassino" written?
What is the name of the naval command in Great Britain?
What is the name of the smoked sheep cheese produced in the Tatra Mountains?
What is called an attitude of doubt, a loss of faith in the success of a cause?
Which king issued the Wiślicko-Piotrkow statutes?
How many strings does a Russian guitar have?
The Caribbean Sea is part of which ocean?
On which continent do the Iroquois live?
Since what century has the Catholic University of Lublin existed?
Which country is Stieg Larsson, author of the "Millennium" crime trilogy, from?
Which tire company promotes the best restaurants in its published guide?
On which continent did Mobutu Sese Seko rule?
Are the Wieprz and Wieprza the same river?
What does the proverb say serves as a guide?
Is the work "Mikołaj Doświadczyński przypadki" by Ignacy Krasicki written in verse or prose?
In the Polish highlanders, what is the name of the elderly shepherd, to whom the yuhasi report?
Is quicklime a chemical compound or an element?
At the mouth of which river lies the port of Le Havre?
In which uprising did the battles of Igania and Wawer take place?
Does the Neman River flow through Vilnius?
In what year did the radio broadcast first begin with the playing of the bugle call from St. Mary's Tower?
Does the aurora borealis occur at both poles?
Which disease used to be called rheumatism?
In which country did Daoism originate?
In which battle did Ulrich von Jungingen die?
What is the name of a predator from the canine family with large ears that lives in the Sahara?
What do we colloquially call the sports and entertainment hall in Katowice?
Founded in 1921, TMJP is a society of lovers of which language?
What was the name of the Egyptian god with the head of a jackal?
Which people built ziggurats?
What, in German, is the name of the door frame to which the door is attached?
Whose privileges were limited by the Great Freedom Charter?
What do we call a person who unlawfully, arbitrarily appropriates power or a position?
What is the name of the largest colorless cut diamond in the world, mined in 1849 and given to Queen Victoria?
Western Sahara has large deposits of copper, phosphorite or uranium?
Who is the author of the historical novel "Ashes"?
What is the science of bacteria, viruses and other microorganisms called?
In which Federico Fellini film is Marcello Rubini the main character?
Can the eel be electric?
Do bobsleds have handlebars and brakes?
Which animal is a symbol of a stock market slump?
In which Polish uprising did the Jew Berek Joselewicz take part?
Give the Polish name of the element with the Latin name sulfur?
What is the name of the plant family to which peas, beans, lupins belong?
What was the name of the document issued in 1215 by John Without Land?
What nickname did Diderot give to the servant Pooh in his novel?
According to Jan Brzechwa, where does the reed grow where the beetle sounds?
On which island did Zeus hide the Europe he kidnapped?
What are the names of two real numbers whose result when added is zero?
What is the official form in which we address the deputy minister?
What is the name of a theater puppet that is placed on the hand and moved by the actor's fingers?
What is the name of the entertainment district of Paris, located on the highest hill?
In which American city are the Flushing Meadows tennis courts located?
What was the name of the political police in the Third Reich?
What do the words "Et tu, Brute, contra me" mean?
What is the name of American actor Kirk Douglas' son?
Which European capital is closest to the Polish border?
Which city is the capital of the Subcarpathian province?
What is the Latin name for the spelling exercise of writing down text?
What is the French name for an official denial or correction of some news?
What is the French name for reading notes by voice?
Who produced the film "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs" in 1937?
What was the name of the fortress at the mouth of the Zbrucz River to the Dniester, near Kamieniec Podolski?
What was the name of the economic program proposed by Mikhail Gorbachev?
Which Asian peninsula is the largest?
Complete the adage: "the first cats for..."
What Latin words are uttered after the election of a pope?
To persistently demand something is to drill a hole in someone's...?
What was the name of the girl from Green Gables?
Is Austria a member of NATO?
In which city did the coronation of Stanislaw August Poniatowski take place?
Is calcium a metal?
What time of day was Herling Grudzinski's Diary written?
What is the name of the romantic park founded by Helena Radziwill in 1776 near Nieborow?
After the death of which ruler did the Diadochs divide his kingdom?
In which ocean is the island of St. Helena located?
Is the Sahara also located in Algerian territory?
Where was Arthur Schopenhauer born?
"My Summer in Downing Street" is the memoirs of which British politician?
Please provide the Polish name of the economic organization with the abbreviation EFTA.
In what year did the first nuclear test take place?
To whom did the Durendal sword belong?
Who in Pan Tadeusz played the best on the dulcimer?
What was the name of the barber of Seville?
In which country is the DPA news agency headquartered?
How many liters are contained in one cubic decimeter?
What is the name of a large tank for carrying fuel?
What is the name of an electric bus powered by a grid suspended over the road?
What is the angle between the geographic meridian and the magnetic meridian called?
Give the chemical formula of ice.
What is the name of Georgia's capital?
What is the name of a member of the Monty Python group, played in the films A Fish Called Wanda?
Who in the Navy is the equivalent of a Lieutenant General?
In which city is the Dragon of Dragons award for documentaries given?
Every how many years was the mythical phoenix reborn from the ashes - every 50, every 500 or every 5,000 years?
French physiologist Albert Calmette has developed a vaccine against which microorganism?
From which country did the dark, strong beer - porter - originate?
Which medical instrument was invented by Lembeck?
Is military service compulsory in Great Britain?
Conjunctivus is which mode of the verb in Latin?
Please decipher the abbreviation KBWE?
Which Russian czar ordered Yermak's expedition to Siberia in 1582?
In which country lie the so-called Transylvanian Alps, or Southern Carpathians?
In which play by Alexander Fredro in the first scene does Gustav enter through the window?
Which book consists of 114 sur?
Whose wife was called the "borderland wolf" because of the Tartar pogroms?
Which country was home to the so-called Bizonia - the combined occupation zones of Britain and the U.S.?
What do we call a person finding pleasure in inflicting physical pain?
"The Career of Arthur Ui" presents a parody of which politician?
What charge do protons have?
What is the name of the channel connecting the Irish Sea to the Celtic Sea?
What was the name of the "Alien" spaceship?
On what horse according to folk beliefs does St. Martin arrive?
What does the word succor mean?
Into which sea does the Danube flow?
What is the name of a protein belonging to scleroproteins that is the basic building block of hair and nails?
In his self-portrait with Saskia, Rembrandt depicted himself with a woman sitting on his lap. Who was this woman to Rembrandt?
What used to be the name of a camp cone in the military?
On which continent are the mountains of Notre Dame located?
Where is Olympus Mons located?
How many Sundays does Lent count?
What is the name of the director of the film "Close Encounters of the Third Kind"?
What chemical element has the symbol Fm?
Medieval goosebumps are they a plucked or wind instrument?
What is the name of the title character, a lovable creature from another planet, of Spielberg's film?
In what country were Odra computers manufactured?
In what century did Rudolf Diesel develop the diesel engine?
How many seeds are contained in a date palm fruit?
What is the Greek name for a three-part painting or sculpture?
What was the name of the Polish military organization, whose commanders were Generals Grot, Bór, Niedźwiadek?
What is the name for slavery to the Turks or Tartars in Old Polish?
What is a low-value card called in bridge?
What is the title of Stieg Larsson's trilogy, the last volume of which is titled "The Sandcastle That Fell"?
In what year did Father John Paul II visit Poland for the first time?
How many medals did the Poles win at the 2013 World Athletics Championships in Moscow?
Which city was the Titanic headed to?
How many meters is a hectometer?
The long strand of hair from the temples worn by Orthodox Jews is...?
In which Stanislaw Bareja film is there a scene with bowls bolted to tables?
In what century did Charles Darwin live?
In what year was the People's Republic of Poland renamed?
Which cabaret is made up of Stanislaw Szelc, Jerzy Skoczylas and Leszek Niedzielski?
Who was crowned king of Poland earlier: Jagiello or Jadwiga?
Which blacksmith product brings good luck?
Did Federico Fellini, nominated for an Oscar 12 times, receive the award for directing?
What was the name of the eponymous Anna, the heroine of Leo Tolstoy's book?
Which character in "Quo vadis" is called Copperbeard?
What is the name of the Vatican's representation to the government of a country?
What color calendars does Piotr Szczepanik recommend burning in his song?
Potsdamer Platz, Alexander Platz - these are the names of subway stations in which city?
What is the name of the highest Polish award that Jerzy Buzek and Norman Davies received in 2012?
What do we call a simple pyramid whose base is a regular figure?
To visit an Aztec city, do you have to go to Mexico, Bolivia or Peru?
What is the name of the gear shifting device on a bicycle?
In which part of Gdansk lies the cathedral with the famous organ built by Jan Wolff?
Who issued the Great Charter of Liberties in 1215?
In what century was the Queen Victoria and Prince Albert Museum established in London?
Are mammography and ultrasound the same method of examination?
What is the one word for milk, butter, cheese?
Does a green sign with the name of the village oblige you to slow down to 50 km/h?
Which Greek god's name is borne by the U.S. ships used to land on the moon?
What was the name of the Swedish naturalist who created the classification of organisms?
What was the name of Eiffel, the builder of the tower in Paris?
In what year was the festival at Woodstock first held?
How many legs does a photography tripod usually have?
Who wrote "The Promised Land" and "The Peasants"?
What was the name of the telegrapher in "The Four Armored"?
In which era did St. Thomas Aquinas live: the Middle Ages or the Renaissance?
In which century did Henry VIII reign?
In which industrial plant is a rolling mill usually located?
What is the name of a water pipe popular in the Middle East?
What was the name of the sports club whose president was Richard Ochódzki?
Which Russian tsar introduced the grahazel?
What did he want to name his daughter after the coal man from the movie "Teddy Bear"?
Who built the first diesel engine in 1897?
Is the honeymoon a period before or after the wedding?
Are there flamingos in South America?
In what year was the first artificial Earth satellite launched?
Whose name is the Song and Dance Ensemble "Silesia" named after?
What was the name of the 1947 action to resettle Ukrainians?
Which country did the writer Verne come from?
What was the name of Esau and Jacob's father?
Who created an opera based on the poem "Eugene Onegin" by Alexander Pushkin?
Point out the preposition in the sentence "I'm going to school."
Is a hook gun an incisive weapon or a firearm?
In sports, what is the name for an improper play, hit, etc.?
What is the name of an international organization of writers founded in London in the 1920s?
In which city did Beethoven create and die?
What was the name of the prince, the hero of Alexander Borodin's opera?
How many times has Innsbruck hosted the Winter IO?
Which of Shakespeare's dramas featured Polonius, Claudius, and Gertrude?
Can churches and religious associations apply for EU grants?
Is Bydgoszcz located on the Vistula River?
Who is the author of the words: "sacred love of the beloved homeland"?
Does Norway border Russia?
1444 - what century is that?
In which country was Alfred Nobel born?
Expand the acronym NFZ.
What is the name of the horse breeding center?
What is the letter abbreviation for a person of undetermined identity?
Do dolphins have teeth?
Which country does Bermuda belong to?
What was the name of the Polish painter Makowski?
With which country does Poland have the shortest border?
What is the other name for an ocular incongruity resulting from imperfect corneal formation?
What was the name of Hades' wife, who spent part of the year underground and part on the ground?
What does the word Werwolf mean in Polish, which was the name of a German diversionary plan during World War II?
The ruler of which state was Semiramide?
What is the name of the pass that starts a volleyball match?
What was Wokulski's name?
In what style is St. Mary's Church in Gdansk built?
How many pairs of eyes does a flounder have?
What was the name of the author of "Anna Karenina" and "War and Peace"?
Who is the author of "A Short Treatise Between the Lord, the Alderman and the Parson"?
Which number is larger: -1 or -1.5?
The district of which city is Szombierki?
What is the weight of the goods including packaging called?
How many adopted children does Marek Mostowiak have?
What is the name of the Pole who developed a glider called a hang glider in 1896?
What is the name of the lowest military rank?
In what non-SI units do we measure the focusing ability of a lens?
What was the name of the band in which Michael Jackson performed together with his brothers?
Is Iceland a republic?
What is the name of the number that determines the ratio of the length of a circle's circumference to its diameter?
One hundredth of a ruble is...?
What form did Satan take to tempt Eve in paradise?
What is the name of a question that does not need to be answered because it is common knowledge?
What is the French term for glasses that stick only on the nose?
In which film Zdzislaw Maklakiewicz introduces himself with the words: "I'm very sorry, engineer Mamoń I am"?
Please provide the exact date when the November Uprising began?
By which sea is Algeria located?
In which Spanish city is the Alhambra palace located?
In which Warsaw cemetery is Leopold Staff buried?
What was the name of the peace pipe smoked by Indian chiefs?
On which island stood the colossus depicting the sun god Helios ranked among the seven wonders of the world?
What number are caged eggs labeled with?
What is the name of the mother of the mother and the cake?
Which work is subtitled "History of the nobility of 1811 and 1812 in twelve books in verse"?
In what century was the railroad from Krakow to Zakopane established?
Did Napoleon's legitimate son ascend to the throne of France?
Which artist recorded the song "Raspberry King" with the band Budka Suflera?
What is the name of the famous Spanish tenor Carreras?
Did Moniuszko create operettas?
What was the name of the brothers Joseph and Casimir, Olympic wrestlers?
In which uprising did Boleslaw Prus participate?
In Buddhism and Hinduism, what is the state of liberation from suffering and desire, the ultimate goal of every believer, called?
Swiekier is the old Polish name for the wife's father or the husband's father?
How many minutes does a handball match last?
The prime minister of which European country was Aldo Moro?
Thinking of two opposites we say fire and ...?
What do we call the horse sport, equestrianism, in Greek?
What is the name of the stamp album?
How many barrels does a hunting gun called a double-barreled shotgun have?
In Podhale, what is the name of the owner of a village farm?
What is the official language in Cuba?
What does autumn begin with in a song performed by Czesław Niemen?
Who commanded the Polish army in 1673 at the Battle of Chocim?
What was the name of the yacht on which Henryk Jaskola circumnavigated the Earth alone?
How many countries does San Marino border?
Which Polish king was the last to fight a war against the Teutonic Order?
Is a dybbuk the soul of a dead sinner ascending into a living body or a ghost in a household?
On whose side did Sweden fight during both wars?
To which disciple did Jesus give the Aramaic name Kephas?
In which Italian city was St. Francis born?
The protagonist of which novel by Żeromski is Cezary Baryka?
Was there a disciple named Bartholomew among the twelve apostles?
Which sport did Franz Beckenbauer play?
What was the highest denomination present in circulation before the 1995 denomination?
Which queen was protected by Athos, Porthos, Aramis and d'Artagnan from Richelieu?
What position does Przemyslaw Tyton play?
The guitarist of which rock band played one of the roles in the movie "Pirates of the Caribbean at the End of the World"?
On which continent is the Takla Makan desert located?
In which city was Julian Tuwim born?
Was the idea of lighting the Olympic torch practiced in ancient Greece?
Which planet in the solar system orbits the fastest?
Is X muse referred to as television or film?
Entente cordiale is an alliance made in 1904 between France and which country?
Where was the first regular radio station established?
Who captured the South Pole in 1911?
What does the term fair play mean?
Is it a traffic offense to overtake a vehicle at a pedestrian crossing?
What is the name of the postulate that says that there are no two electrons in an atom that have identical all four quantum numbers?
The flag of which country depicts a red shield on a white background?
Which European capital is located in the Wallachian Plain?
Was John III Sobieski king during his command of the Battle of Chocim?
In which sea is the island of Bornholm located?
Which country did the knight Cid come from?
What year was the premiere of "The Wedding" by Stanislaw Wyspianski?
What kind of insects does myrmecology deal with?
Was Queen Victoria the empress of India?
From what does he who wars with the sword perish?
What is the name of the court writ providing the defendant with security of arrival from abroad?
In what century did the Rokosz Zebrzydowski take place?
Kora with the band Maanam sings: "The clouds are hanging over the city." Over which one?
What is the name of the heroine of the Tomb Raider series of computer games?
What country's historical land is Provence?
Who commanded the Polish troops during the Battle of Szczekociny?
Who is the central figure of the Veit Stoss altarpiece?
"My," "your," "our" - what pronouns are these?
How many syllables are in the word dusk?
Which American president attended the Yalta peace conference?
Who created the writing system for the blind?
Who is the patron saint of the oldest university in Prague?
What is Major Hubal's real name?
Who is the author of the children's poem entitled. "Selfie?"
Which country invaded Finland during the so-called Winter War?
Who did the soldiers of the Legions call Grandpa?
"Explaining Dreams", "Introduction to Psychoanalysis" - these are books by which author?
What was the nickname of Queen Mary I Tudor of England?
What is the name of the drawing composed of intersecting lines placed on banknotes?
In what century were the words of the Rota written?
What was Makushinsky's name?
Which singer launched the hits "Like a virgin" and "Material girl"?
What is the name of the depression on the Moon's surface caused by a meteorite impact?
In which European capital does the Acropolis rise?
The team of which country is customarily referred to as the Orange?
From which continent do inverted parakeets originate?
Did a king named Ludwik reign in Poland?
The singer of which band is Grzegorz Markowski?
How many husbands did Scarlett O'Hara have?
Is the bird named Secretary predatory or herbivorous?
Which language is official in Brazil?
The mineral named talc is the mineral of which element?
On which continent is Patagonia located?
Who is the author of the poem "Recollection" sung by Czeslaw Niemen?
Sculptor Slawomir Dunikowski donated his work to the state. Where can we admire his museum?
A state functionary who prosecutes criminals and charges them in court is...?
In honor of whom is Kotan Day celebrated?
The symbol for which element is Cr?
In which mountains is the peak of Polonina Wetlinskaya located?
"The beetle sounds in the reeds". - Who is the author of these words?
In which city was the Picador cabaret active?
Through which district of London does the zero meridian pass?
Is a hook gun an alpine equipment or a weapon?
To promise great benefits and riches - is to promise what mountains?
What did the title Lord Jim, the hero of Joseph Conrad's book, do?
What was the name of the former imperial residence in Beijing?
The capital of which country is Sofia?
In how many styles are swimming competitions held?
What bird appears in the coat of arms of Austria?
Diablotka is a spicy spiced fish soup or a puff pastry pie?
The forint is the currency of which country?
What is the name of the combined chambers of the Polish Sejm and Senate?
What was Rumcajs' profession before he became a highwayman?
What was the name of the first U.S. president?
Who is the author of the novel "Ashes and Diamonds"?
In which country are the ruins of the ancient city of Memphis located?
How many rooks are standing on the chessboard at the beginning of the game?
Are synogarillas a variety of pigeons or titmice?
What is the name of the officer in charge of economic affairs on the ship?
Did Jan Kochanowski study in Italy?
Who is the author of the poem about the Trumpet Elephant?
In what year was the Song and Dance Group "Mazowsze" founded?
Cubiculum is what kind of room?
What job was Irena Kwiatkowska afraid of in the TV series Forty Years Old?
In what century did the Battle of Somosierra take place?
What was the name of the part of Poland directly incorporated into the Third Reich during World War II?
What was the name of the daughter of the King of Colchis, the wife of Jason?
Which river runs through the Bledowska Desert?
In which province is Pila located?
Who is the author of the play "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof"?
What do we call dumplings for Christmas Eve borscht?
Is the surface area of a badminton court larger or smaller than a tennis court?
In which country is the book "Lolita" set?
What is the name of the science that deals with the study of coats of arms?
Where does the kiwi bird occur in the wild?
What chemical element and a peninsula in the Baltic Sea share the same name?
Which animal kidnapped Thumbelina from her home?
Did Sigmund Krasinski write the "Divine Comedy"?
Does Gibraltar have a larger area than Warsaw?
Where did Pygmalion originate from?
What was the name of Vincent van Gogh's brother, who supported him financially?
What was the name of the Transylvanian prince who, in alliance with the Swedes, invaded Poland in 1657?
John Glenn or Valentina Tereshkova - who has been in space before?
Which country owns an island in the Adriatic Sea named Krk?
What is the name of the capital of Belarus?
Who is the author of the words: "such shall be the Republic, what its youth chow"?
Ju-jitsu is an Old Japanese style of hand-to-hand combat or using bamboo sticks?
Who wrote the libretto to Stanislaw Moniuszko's opera "Halka"?
St. Anthony of Padua belonged to which order?
What does the Latin word quasi mean?
In which country rises the highest peak in South America. - Aconcagua?
In which Greek city does the Olympic torch burn?
Which country is Luis Figo from?
Did Juliusz Słowacki also write in prose?
According to the song, what is knocking in the cha-cha rhythm?
What is the name of the last letter in the Greek alphabet?
What was Che Guevara's name?
From which work by Aldous Huxley is the quote: "when the individual feels, the community fails"?
In which country does the Neris flow into the Nemunas?
How many female vocalists were part of the ABBA band?
Is Gubalowka more or less than 1,000 meters above sea level?
What is the name of the half of the half?
What is the name of the British actress who played the head of intelligence in the Bond film series?
Are there more consonants or vowels in the Polish alphabet?
What was the name of the god of the north wind in Greek mythology?
In what year were the separate German states of East Germany and West Germany established?
To which country do Muslims make the pilgrimage to visit Mecca?
What did the god Eol exercise authority over?
From which people did Goliath originate?
What is the name of the crew dining room on the ship?
What do we call a section of text that begins with a new line?
What disease is transmitted by the female forkhead mosquito?
What is the name of a traditional Russian carriage made of three horses in a row?
According to the Old Gentlemen's Cabaret, what is good for everything?
Who was the creator of the Mickey Mouse and Pluto dog characters?
Who attempted to lead Eurydice out of Hades?
How many times in a year do the monsoons change their direction?
What is a caddy?
Is a tuja a coniferous or deciduous plant?
The district of which city is Manhattan?
What body part did Eeyore lose one day?
In what year did Otto III and Boleslaw the Brave meet at the Congress of Gniezno?
An altar of three parts is a triptych, and what is the name of an altar of two parts?
What nationality was the writer Kallimach, teacher of the sons of Casimir Jagiellon?
Isotopes are atoms with the same mass or atomic number?
In which language does merci mean thank you?
What is a female deer called?
The old song sang "buy auburns." Are they little bouquets of flowers?
What names did Mozart bear?
What was the name of General Rowecki a.k.a. Grot?
What does the proverb say the canine wants?
What is the name of the 12-point scale that describes earthquakes in addition to the Richter scale?
What is the name of Zakopane's main promenade?
Which bird is a symbol of peace and harmony?
What is a poem devoid of rhymes called?
The capital of which region of Italy is Florence?
From the repertoire of which band is the song "I am from the city"?
Which animal is the symbol of Bialowieza National Park?
Illegal performance enhancement is...?
What color were the hills of Africa in the title of Ernest Hemingway's novel?
What does the Latin phrase "ad exemplum" mean?
What was the name of the son of an aristocrat abandoned in the jungle and raised by monkeys?
What is the German name for a flammable cord used to initiate an explosion at a distance?
What was the nickname of the great socialite Henryk Goldszmit?
What did Marysia do in Konopnicka's fairy tale about Orphan Mary?
What is the name of a collective farm in Israel?
What was the name of the lord of the castle who married the titular Balladine from Słowacki's novel?
How many times did Alfred Hitchcock get an Oscar for directing?
What does the word "lupus" mean in Latin?
Is sugarcane grown in Brazil?
Where did Heraclitus come from?
Is the Council of Ministers the executive or the legislative branch?
What was the name of the dumb Gall, the hero of Asterix comics?
To which country do the Aeolian islands belong?
In which state in the US is the city of Detroit located?
Are vultures under protection in Poland?
In what series did George Clooney play the role of Dr. Ross?
What did the awl come out of?
On which side fighting in the Civil War did more Poles fight?
What was the name of the battleship that started World War II?
Is Camembert cheese Greek cheese or French cheese?
What was the name of the author of the painting "The Night Adventures of John Olbracht"?
What is the name of the writer, author of "Diary Written at Night"?
Which tropic passes through Australia?
In which country is the geographical land called Transylvania located?
The leader of which team is Adam Darski - Nergal?
Is the boa constrictor or venomous snake?
Which city is the capital of Mexico?
What is Maryla Rodowicz's regret in the song "Today the real gypsies are gone"?
Whose name is the Cracow Academy of Fine Arts named after?
What role did Stanislaw Mikulski play in "A Stake Larger Than Life"?
What is the name of the leather-treatment facility?
What was Nemtsevich's name?
What is the title of the second part of "Bridget Jones's Diary"?
Is the baboon living in the rivers of India and Burma a mammal?
What was Witos' name?
What is the name of the structure that protects the bridge's structures from the impact of krill?
The highest peak of which mountains is the Corno Grande?
Which univ. is older: Sorbonne or Jagiellonian University?
What is the name of the drawbridge in London, built in the 19th century?
What was the name of Bellerofont's winged steed on which he fought Chimera?
To whom did the gladiators address themselves, saying: "those going to their death greet you"?
What is the name of the cosmodrome in Kazakhstan?
A bardis is a type of pica, sword or battle axe?
What is the name of the day of rest celebrated by Jews?
Is the gibbon a mammal?
What eye color do Siamese cats usually have?
Which Florentine historian and politician is the author of the book "The Prince"?
Is salt still being mined in Bochnia?
What is the name of the detective whose adventures were first described in the book "A Study in Scarlet"?
Is there a horse racing track in Wroclaw?
What was the name of Heracles' wife?
Which monster was killing with its eyes?
Which sport did Mariusz Czerkawski play professionally?
Is acclamation the rejection of a motion by vote?
In which city is the 91-meter tall Battle of the Nations Monument located?
In what century is the plot of the novel "Countess Cosel" by Kraszewski set?
What are the names of large concentrations of marine fish?
In which city is Bertold Brecht's "The Threepenny Opera" set?
What was Lutoslawski's name?
Which actor sang the song "I'm such a cold bastard already"?
What do we call an artist who depicts battle scenes in painting?
Which film was made earlier: "Man of Iron" or "Man of Marble"?
Is a panegyric a work of praise or derision?
From which continent do freesias originate?
What is a pac worth, according to the proverb?
In which city is the Jack Malczewski museum located?
Tonsura is a robe or a way of shaving the head?
In economics, determining the yield on capital is another way of cutting off what?
What are the paper curl wraps called?
In the delta of which river is the city of St. Petersburg located?
Since what year has Alaska functioned as an independent state?
How many countries did Poland border in 1989 (not counting the maritime border)?
What is the name of an unconventional treatment method that involves applying pressure to specific points on the patient's body?
What is the name of the woman in the Phrygian cap, a symbol of France?
The representative of which trend in literature was Emil Zola?
What was the name of the author of detective novels, the creator of the character Hercule Poirot?
In which European capital can we visit the Pergamon Museum?
What is Latin for metabolism?
What is the three-minute fight period in professional boxing called?
We sing: "Poszła Karolinka do Gogolina." From what region did Karolina originate?
Where is the soul of a man who is afraid?
What are the 12 chosen disciples of Jesus referred to as?
From which Polish song come the words: "sooner the water in the sea dries up than in us there will be harmony"?
What was the name of the first representative of the Jagiellonian dynasty?
What does "Opus Magnum" mean?
In what century did Henryk Wieniawski live?
Whose name was the airborne 303 Squadron named after?
What is the name of the song sung to put a baby to sleep?
What is the name of the mysterious creature of unknown origin, the snow man?
In what year was the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier built in Warsaw?
Who did Heracles strangle by lifting him up?
What do we call in Latin an extension of the term of a contract or a postponement of an obligation?
What was the name of the Italian variety of westerns created by Sergio Leone?
The founder of which movement was Robert Baden-Powell?
Which organ fits in the pericardial sac?
Who played the lead role in the film "Last Tango in Paris"?
What hydrocarbon is the main component of mud gas?
What animal is featured in the emblem of Venice?
How many perpendiculars does the segment have?
Do seals live only in seas and oceans or also in lakes?
What is the name of the largest species of penguin?
Are splinter and despondency the same thing?
How did the scholar Lavoisier die?
What is the name of the unit of sound intensity equal to 1/10 of a bale?
What is the name of the musical instrument and tail of the black grouse?
Who is the head of state in Jamaica?
What did the legendary Basilisk kill with?
Part of which ocean is the Yellow Sea?
Is the red-tailed Amazon a species of ant or bee?
What is the term for the genre of literature we call science fiction in English?
What other colors, besides yellow and red, are on the Lithuanian flag?
From what language does the word strike come?
What was the name of the great Turkish drum?
A hoop made of plastic, which is set in motion by a rotating motion of the hips, is...?
One of the mythical gorgons and the sea urchin share a common name?
Are Cappadocia and Languedoc historical lands located in the same country?
Which country did Bob Marley come from?
Which celestial body casts a shadow on our satellite during a lunar eclipse?
What was the name of the Roman emperor's ancient bodyguard?
Does the wildebeest antelope have horns?
Which bay is Qatar located on?
Which animal according to the proverb walks its own paths?
What was the name of Oedipus' father?
In which month does the 100th day of the year fall?
Which pole of the Earth did Roald Amundsen conquer in December 1912?
Is the raccoon prairie dog a predator?
In which city was Skamander active?
Is kale a traditional Ukrainian dish, a plant, or part of Hasidic clothing?
Whose wife in "Promised Land" was Madame Miller?
In which part of Dziady did Mickiewicz include "Letter to the Friends of the Muscovites"?
In which European capital does the Obelisk of Luxor stand in Concord Square?
Do cavernosaurs live in a terrestrial environment?
In which city does the sports and entertainment hall called Spodek stand?
Who headed the PSL after the death of Wincenty Witos?
Maltese are a breed of which pets?
The lower tusks of the boar are sabers, and what is the name of the upper tusks of the boar in the hunting dialect?
What is the name of the monument depicting a statue of a woman holding a burning torch and a plaque with the U.S. Declaration of Independence?
What was the name of the first dog in space?
Which plant is peanut oil made from?
What character did Clark Gable play in Gone with the Wind?
Did Alfred Nobel invent TNT?
In Egyptian mythology, what was the name of the guardian of the dead escorting them to court?
Does Afghanistan border Iraq?
What was the name of a Polish actress named Jędrusik?
What was the name of the imperial treasury under the principate?
What is the name of the actress who twice played the role of Lara Croft?
What is the name of the square in London where Nelson's column is located?
With whom did the thread dance in Jan Brzechwa's fairy tale?
Who was Morpheus' father?
Is the ruler of Oman a sultan, emir or king?
What does foxtrot literally mean in English?
Can amendments be submitted during the second reading of the bill?
Was Stanislaw Kisielewski an MP?
Is Turkey a member of the EU?
In what film did Richard Chamberlain play the role of a priest torn between his vocation and love?
What chemical symbol does lead have?
Who was the father of Pegasus?
In what century did the cult at Fatima begin?
Who is the author of the work "On the Revolutions of the Celestial Spheres"?
For whom does Mrs. Rollison ask the Senator's favor in part III of Dziady?
What disease did Nel, the heroine of "In the Wilderness and the Desert," contract?
What is the simultaneous firing of multiple rifles or cannons called?
Can European funds finance theater classes for people with disabilities?
What is the name of the place where, according to the Revelation of St. John, the clash between the forces of good and evil is to take place?
What is the title of the equivalent of foreign minister in the US?
At what age was Michelangelo born?
Which work by Zbigniew Herbert ends with the words: "Be faithful, go"?
Labrador Basin, Guyana Basin, Angola Basin - these are the basins of which ocean?
What is the name of the best student in the class or school?
For which era is the slogan "grassroots work" characteristic?
How many years is the term of office of the Polish president?
In what city was the band The Beatles formed?
What is mammalian science called?
What special property did Hades's helmet have?
What does the phrase "in vitro" literally mean?
What is the pseudonym of the Polish self-taught painter Epifaniusz Drowniak?
Which Pole was the first to circumnavigate the Earth alone without calling at a port?
Which Renaissance artist was famous for his woodcuts?
In which city is the Basilica of the Holy Sepulcher located?
The proposal to become president of which country was given to Albert Einstein in 1952?
Michelangelo's work "The Last Judgment" is it a fresco or a watercolor?
What was the name of Russia's currency before the outbreak of the October Revolution?
What is the name of the largest stadium in Poland?
What was the name of the spider girl from Mai's Bee?
Which German chancellor was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize?
Which peak is higher: Giewont or Kasprowy Wierch?
In which country was gunpowder invented?
In what century was the Hague Convention banning dum-dum weapons concluded?
Which tropic passes through South America?
Are the Niechcic family characters from "Above the Niemen" or "Nights and Days"?
In what year did the Korean War begin?
What does the Latin word "vivat" mean?
What was the name of Wokulski's beloved?
According to Ignacy Krasicki, "pleasant evil beginnings, but the end...?"
What was the name of the pharaoh from "Pharaoh" by Boleslaw Prus?
In which park stands the former Podchorążówka building, where the November Uprising began?
On which novel by Mark Hlaska was "Base of the Dead People" directed?
What, in French, is the name of the room in the theater where the audience stays during intermission?
Are all angles acute in an acute triangle?
What is the name of the negative resolution regarding the government's actions?
Is the Congo the longest river in Africa?
Which tree represents a person's family roots?
Which Shakespearean character asks the question, "To be or not to be"?
What is the name of the bunch of flowers hung on a building to signify that its construction is nearing completion?
Which country did Celsius come from?
What is the name of the tennis match in which mixed pairs play?
Which instrument has more strings: the harp or the cello?
The army of which country was defeated by Napoleon in 1806 at Jena?
In which city was Rudolf Höß, commandant of the Auschwitz camp, executed?
How many digits does a PIN usually count?
What is the title of the film by Marek Piwowski, which is set on a cruise ship?
What is the name of the lines on the map that connect points with the same seabed depth?
In the saying, we say that someone is bald like which part of the body?
What is the name of a flexible board that allows bumps when jumping into water?
Lituanian Studies is the study of the literature and language of which country?
Kirys is the name of an incisive weapon, a firearm or part of a knight's armor?
In Islamic architecture, is the bab a window or a gate?
Which fish is the largest?
Who formulated the law of universal gravitation in the 17th century?
What is the name of an expert in handwriting analysis?
What is the name of the Polish submarine that destroyed 15 enemy ships during World War II?
In which modern country lies the historic land of Galilee?
What is the paddles used for?
Is Iceland bigger than Ireland?
Which king established the Cracow Academy in 1364?
What is the name of a two-person instrumental or singing ensemble?
What do we call dressing in the kitchen?
What river can be seen from Drohiczyn Castle?
Which part of the clothing does the Frenchman mean when he says "chapeau bas"?
What was the name of the Albatross girl?
What is the name of the quick turn performed on the toes of one foot?
The capital of which country is the city of Kathmandu?
What does "casus belli" mean in Latin?
The platypus bird acquires food in a way that is unusual for songbirds - how?
At the bottom of which ocean do the Imperial Mountains rise?
What is the name of the textbook for basic literacy?
What is the set of all points of the plane that are equidistant from a single point called?
Are dahlia and georginia the same thing?
How many agents, "Charlie's angels" were there?
Which tsar is depicted in the copper rider statue in St. Petersburg?
In what year did the Spanish Civil War end?
The long white robe that the priest wears under the chasuble is...?
Who is the author of the poem "In the midst of discord, the Lord God strikes a huge bell"?
In what year did the U.S. declare war on Germany during World War I?
In Islam, what is inevitable fate, fatum called?
Who is Dominikowa for Jagna in the novel "Peasants"?
A man in hot water is impulsive or rather calm?
What is the name of the branch of mathematics that deals with plane figures?
In what year after the breakup of Yugoslavia did Croatia declare independence?
In the battle at which city with the Tatars did Henry the Pious die?
What kind of coup took place in 1926?
In which country is the city of Kandahar located?
Popular in the U.S., apple pie is a shortcrust pastry with which fruit?
Are Catholic priests now bound by tonsure?
What was the name of the muse of the dance, whose attribute was the lyre?
What color is the notion that you don't have?
Fencing, chess, saber - the competitions of which sport?
In which mountains is Zawrat Pass located?
What geometric symbol exists on the ten-dollar bill?
What rock is Gerlach made of?
What is it called to preserve meat by saturating it with saltpeter and spices?
Was Ladislaus Jagiello the first Polish king by that name?
What is the name of the decorative outer garment worn over the alb?
Are secans and cosecans trigonometric functions?
What is the name of an aquatic spider that builds so-called bells underwater?
In what year did the Finnish-Soviet winter war break out?
What do we call the inverse operation of differentiation?
The monastery of which order is located in Swieta Lipka?
What were the names of noble knights in feudal Japan?
Who first sailed to the coast of North America - the Vikings, the Phoenicians or the Chinese?
Where did Caroline go in a Silesian folk song?
"Submarine" is the English name for what kind of ship?
What was the name of the daughter of Boleslaw the Pious, wife of Ladislaus the Short?
What, according to the saying, is good for a fracas?
How many twenty-minute parts are in an ice hockey game?
Please complete the proverb: "he wore the wolf several times...".
How many days off on demand is an employee entitled to per year?
What was the name of the discoverer of X-rays, Röntgen?
What was the name of the singer of the band Hey?
Do woodpeckers fly away to warm countries from Poland for the winter?
What is hair removal called for medicinal or cosmetic purposes?
What is the name of the bird that lays the smallest eggs?
What day in December are the Nobel Prizes in Economics always presented?
Is knock down the same as knock out?
For her role in which film did Vivien Lee receive an Oscar in 1940?
Whose likeness appears on the dime bill?
During the reign of which king was the Bullion Commission established?
In what century did Bruno Schulz write "The Cinnamon Shops"?
What was Lilla Veneda's sister's name?
What is the name of the speed skates? The word comes from the Russian skater?
In which city did the coronation of Stanislaw August Poniatowski take place?
Does New Zealand have left-hand or right-hand traffic?
Held in Munich, Oktoberfest is a celebration of which beverage?
During the reign of which queen did the union of England and Ireland occur in 1707?
What is the name of the author of the books "Karlsson from the Roof", "The Lionhearted Brothers"?
Do torsions live in a terrestrial or aquatic environment?
Does diffusion occur in solids?
The virtuoso of which instrument was Franz Liszt?
A representative of which era of painting was French painter Eugène Delacroix?
Which Roman philosopher, writer is the author of the words: "the good of the people should be the supreme law"?
What is a morbid fear of death called?
In which Polish city is Lake Czerniakowskie located?
The leader of which band is Ozzy Osbourne?
Who was the director of the films "Whispers and Screams" and "Persona"?
Has there ever been an image of Henryk Sienkiewicz on circulating banknotes in Poland?
Who in Adam Mickiewicz's fairy tale was already in the garden, already greeting the goose?
What was the name of the cunning fox in Maria Konopnicka's fairy tale about the dwarfs and orphan Mary?
Please decipher the abbreviation PTTK?
A ridge is the sharp edge of a mountain slope or a mountain pass?
What is the name of the annual plan of anticipated state expenditures and revenues?
What gates is the proverbial ox staring at?
Finish: "the force of evil on..."
Who wrote the "Ode to Youth"?
What was the name of Ali's dog from the primer?
What forest did Winnie the Pooh live in?
In sailing, what is the name for a wind that blows obliquely from the stern?
Was the city of Bonn part of West Germany or East Germany?
Is oxidation accepting or donating electrons?
Who wrote the poem Laura and Philo?
What country other than China has access to the Yellow Sea?
Which modern country bears the Latin name Helvetia?
Did Norway participate in World War I?
In psychology, what is the name for the ability to express one's opinion clearly?
At which German city in 1805 did Napoleon force the surrender of Austrian troops?
Please state Tolkien's first name?
From sugar there was a king, from gingerbread a page - and from what a princess?
How many days does the president have to sign a law approved by the Diet?
What kind of coal is mined at the Turow mine?
In what century were corn, tobacco, potatoes brought to Europe?
What does the Crown of the Earth mean in mountaineering?
Which color, in addition to red and white, forms the flag of Yemen with them?
What do the largest peninsula in North America and the Canadian hunting dog breed have in common?
What two elements dominate the Earth's crust?
In which discipline was the Rimet Cup awarded?
What is the name of the branch of zoology that deals with the study of arachnids?
Are tigers found in Africa?
In which European country is the highest and oldest order the Order of the Savior?
Which scientist discovered the law of pendulum motion?
What was the name of the shuttle that made its last space flight?
How many days did Jesus fast in the desert?
The district of which city is Oliva?
In which Polish TV series did the characters Walus Kwiczoły and Jędrus Pyzdry appear?
Which Renaissance artist is the author of the painting "St. Anne of Solitude"?
What was the name of the steel smelting furnaces known in Egypt as early as 3000 BC?
Was Hedwig, wife of Henry I the Bearded, canonized?
The virtuoso of which instrument is Kaja Danczowska?
What is the salary of a regular service soldier called?
What is the name of the largest lizard?
Is an alcove a piece of furniture, a weapon or part of a building?
Who commanded the Polish troops at Grunwald?
During the reign of which Polish king, according to the proverb, did the nobility die out?
"Oh, news of the commune!" - From which work by Adam Mickiewicz does this quote come?
How many years did the war between Poland and the Teutonic Order that began in 1454 last?
What is the name of the Jewish cemetery?
Where was Koziołek Matołek headed in Kornel Makuszyński's book?
Which Polish writer described visions of glass houses?
How many two-characters are there in the word beetle?
What is the boxing referee's command to order the fighters to step away from each other?
Within which country is the Kara-kum desert located?
What is the name of an old Polish silver coin worth a good joke?
What was the code name of the Polish Army's action in 1947 to eliminate UPA units?
Which city did Hitler's troops besiege for 900 days?
Which actress played leading roles in the films "Blue Angel" and "Blonde Venus"?
Was Safona of the island of Lesbos a historical or mythical figure?
Did Antonín Dvořák live in the 20th century?
What milk is missing from a person who has everything he or she desires?
What does 4WD stand for on cars?
In which province is Gizycko located?
Is there a Grand Slam in golf?
Did the poet Lucjan Rydel also create plays?
In which country was the "Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen" proclaimed?
Which coffee contains alcohol: Turkish or Irish?
In which city did Slawomir Mrozek die?
What was the name of the author of the novel "Faithful River"?
In which Polish coastal city is the Fountain of Neptune located?
On which continent was Carthage located?
What was the name of the director of the first Polish film in 3D: "Battle of Warsaw"?
Which Australian insects form huge mounds, 6 meters high?
Which is longer: a nautical mile or a kilometer?
In which folk band did Irena Santor sing in the early days of her career?
In which city is the Ross cemetery located?
In honor of which Greek goddess were panathenaeans held?
What does Venus have under her feet in Botticelli's painting titled. "The Birth of Venus?"
Are all vowels in the Polish language voiced?
What doesn't a resolute person blow into?
What was the name of American General McArthur?
What was the name of the owner of the pastry shop where the Green Balloon group operated in 1905-12?
Was Torun part of the Duchy of Warsaw?
How many sons did the patriarch Jacob have?
The dismissal of which worker caused the strike at the Gdansk Shipyard?
Part of which ocean is the Red Sea?
To which vegetable do we send back something that is good for nothing?
What is the Greek name for a morbid fear of fire?
In what century was the last episode of "The Doll" published in the pages of the Daily Courier?
What was Michelangelo's name?
What is the name of the aunt in Agnieszka Osiecka's song "Damą być"?
Has Matołek the goat finally arrived in Pacanów?
By which sea is Inflants located?
What is the name of the modified zirconium oxide that mimics diamond?
In which month of 1968 did student protests take place in Poland?
In prison dialect, what is an illegally smuggled letter called?
To whom does Oleńka from The Deluge address herself with the words: "Your wounds I am unworthy to kiss"?
What was the period from Christmas to Epiphany called in Old Polish?
Please give the formula for the volume of a cuboid with edges a, b and c?
In which city was the premiere of Giuseppe Verdi's opera "Aida" held?
What was the name of the traveler and soldier who made the conquest of Madagascar?
What vegetable is one of the main ingredients in kopytki?
For whom was the camp called oflag intended?
Is the Vatican a member of the United Nations?
In which city in the U.S. is the action of the film "Love or Throw" set?
Which river with a length of about 300 km separates the US and Mexico?
In which American city was the Declaration of Independence signed?
In which European city is La Sagrada Familia church located?
How many children did Moniuszko have?
Does Monaco host Formula One rallies?
How many months begin with the letter L?
What is the name derived from the Latin for wooden wall cladding?
In which city does the medieval Tower fortress stand?
Leopard is a tank of what manufacture?
What is the English name for a hot sausage roll?
What is the name of the archangel described in the Book of Daniel as the protector of the nation of Israel?
What is the name of the desert area within Mongolia and China?
What is the name of the world's largest radio telescope in Chile, launched in 2013?
How is the fin positioned in cetaceans: vertically or horizontally?
What is the name of the square in front of the Royal Castle in Warsaw?
Did the Hajduks in the Polish army in the 16th and 17th centuries fight on foot or on horseback?
What naked goddess did Actaeon catch a glimpse of in the bath?
What is the name of the main church of the diocese at which the bishop's seat is located?
What is the name of Spain's parliament?
What do the bowels play when we are hungry?
Which Argentine leader's wife was Evita?
Do Unitarian Christians recognize the supremacy of the Pope?
Which ballet by Pyotr Tchaikovsky features the characters of Odette and Siegfried?
Tribushon is an obsolete name for which item?
What was the colloquial name for Soviet GAZ off-road vehicles?
In which cemetery is Chopin's grave located?
In what century did the Polish writer Mikołaj Sęp-Szarzyński live?
Did Herbert von Karajan compose symphonies?
What is the name of the largest lake in Armenia?
What was the name of Dr. Judym's beloved from "Homeless People"?
In which province is Pliskova located?
Whose beloved was Dalila?
Is Oxford University located in London?
Tonkin is a rod-making material made from what plant?
In what year was the Treaty of Versailles signed?
What is the name of the lowest figure in the cards?
In hunting dialect, what are the hare's ears called?
In which city is West Side Story set?
Przemysław Niemiec and Rafał Majka are Polish cyclists or speedway riders?
What distinguished the brave lead soldier in Andersen's fairy tale?
What street did Elmo and the Cookie Monster live on?
Of whom do we say that he "stopped the sun, moved the Earth"?
What was the name of the Spanish painter of the 17th century, author of, among other things, "The Forge of the Volcano"?
Which tragically deceased actor patronizes the award for best actor/actress of the younger generation?
Stanza was the jester of how many kings?
Do rice and bamboo belong to the same plant family?
Is a rookie a petty criminal or someone young and inexperienced?
How many sides of equal length occur in an isosceles triangle?
What was the name of the old trade route between China and Europe?
In what language did Count Jan Potocki, author of the Manuscript Found in Saragossa, among others, write?
A conformist is a person who indiscriminately conforms to or opposes norms?
What did the peddler Jarema collect in the series "Civil War"?
Under which king was the Wilanów palace built?
Ascorbic acid is what vitamin?
How many rulers of Poland came from the Andegawen dynasty?
What was the name of the Italian director, author of the film "Hidden Desire"?
Miłosz, Żeromski, Reymont - which of them did not get the Nobel Prize?
Bouillabaisse soup made with fish, lobster, crabs is a delicacy of the cuisine of which country?
Thaddeus Andrew Bonaventure, fought for US independence. What is his name?
What is the name of a parallelogram whose lengths of all sides are equal?
How many days is November?
What was the name of the protector of artists, synonymous with the patron saint of the arts, who died in 8 BC?
What is the second digit of the number pi?
What is the name of the French actress who played the lead role in Krzysztof Kieslowski's "Three Colors: Blue" and "Sponsoring" films?
Is estragon an herbaceous plant or an enzyme produced by the liver?
Which book hero called his chosen one Dulcinea?
What was the name of the misanthrope, the main character of Midsummer?
What sport does Patrick Chan, a two-time world champion, practice?
In what century was the first Polish postage stamp issued?
What lake is Juliusz Słowacki's Balladyna set near?
Which painter depicted Tadeusz Rejtan in his painting, who tries to prevent the partition parliament from deliberating?
Which wonder of the world do we call something overly delightful?
What is the English acronym for the UN's agriculture and food agenda?
What is a short soldier's shoulder blade called?
Who was Seweryn to Cezary Baryka in The Advance?
What breed is the title character of the TV series Commissioner Alex?
How many circles did the quadriga have?
What was the name of Zbyszek of Bogdaniec's uncle and guardian?
What is the square root of nine?
How many towers rise in the title of the second volume of the novel "The Lord of the Rings"?
From which country does Junnan tea originate?
How many days is the first quarter of a leap year?
Titian, Michelangelo, Leonardo da Vinci - they created in which era?
What color is used to describe macabre jokes?
Who was the father of Shem, Cham and Japheth?
Is hafnium an element?
Which saint's name is borne by the road signs-crosses placed in front of railroad crossings?
What kind of water should be poured into an aquarium containing guppies?
What used to be called inkaust?
What is the Polish name of the element calcium?
Which city did Batman live in?
Which country is Pope Francis from?
What was the name of Thomas Mann's older brother?
What did the grandmother do with her rooster according to a folk song?
Which conference of the heads of the three powers took place earlier - at Yalta or Potsdam?
In which city did St. Paul the Apostle die?
Who in "With Fire and Sword" competed with Skrzetuski for the hand of Helena Kurcewiczówna?
In what field is the Koscielski Prize awarded?
Paul or Gavel - who "was peaceful and did not disturb anyone"?
Please elaborate on the acronym IPN.
Through what, according to the proverb, leads the way to a man's heart?
Square meter how many square centimeters?
What is the subject of onejromance?
Who besides Jozef Pilsudski bore the title of Chief of State?
Are there torpedoes in North America?
What is the name of the tube that connects the eardrum cavity to the throat?
What sport was Coach Kazimierz Górski associated with?
What is the name of the science that deals with the study of cells?
Which Dutch city was liberated on September 30, 1944 by Gen. Maczek's division?
Which country is the papal guard from?
Does Cambodia have access to the sea?
In which city are the Academy Awards galas held?
What was the name of the Queen of the Baltic who loved a fisherman and had to suffer punishment for it?
What was the name of the American writer, the creator of the Jason Bourne character?
Do cereal grains contain starch?
In the Catholic Church, what is the rite of removal of Satan from a possessed person called?
Finish the proverb: "You ordered..."
Are actors Pawel and Rafal Królikowski related?
Are carbohydrates sugars?
Which country did the famous director Alfred Hitchcock come from?
In which city was Nicolaus Copernicus born?
In which Polish city is the Gingerbread Avenue of the Stars located?
Which bird can imitate human speech: the nightingale or the warthog?
What is the name of one of the largest dams in the world on the Colorado River?
What are the edible leaves of the onion called?
What is the process of periodic skin shedding in amphibians and reptiles called?
What was the name of Horeszka's daughter, with whom Jacek Soplica was in love?
Under which dynasty did the Szczerbiec become the coronation sword?
Which country's king became William Alexander in 2013?
In which series do Malgorzata Kozuchowska and Tomasz Karolak play the main roles of Natalia and Ludwik Boski?
What nationality was Willem Barents, who discovered the Strait of Spitsbergen?
What is the name of the white dye of birch bark?
How many years was Charles De Gaulle president of France?
What, in Italian, was the name of a prisoner in the Nazi camps who acted as a caretaker for other prisoners?
What does Stanislaw Jachowicz warn against in the fairy tale titled. "Sick kitty"?
What is the name of the French revolutionary song, the anthem of France?
What is the name of d'Artagnan's homeland, a land in southwestern France?
What is the name of the village on the Warta River with the Raczynski Palace and a cluster of old oak trees?
Under which king were the Crown Tribunal and the Lithuanian Tribunal established?
The Bab-al-Mandab Strait also known as the "Gate of Tears" separates which two continents?
What is the name of the largest modern amphibian?
Is the sea urchin an animal or a plant?
The mythological warrior woman and the great South American river are...?
What is the ability to move objects without touching them called?
A monument to which Polish national hero is located at West Point?
From which village is the name of the Leszno Lake District derived?
The district of which city is Tyniec?
Did Anna Dymna star in all three films about Kargul and Pawlak?
Whose son was Ugedej, the great Mongol khan?
Into which sea does the Nile drain?
What is the target of the name Pinocchio: Pinocchio or Pinocchio to Pinocchio?
How does the scouting greeting sound?
Rosette, angora, tortoiseshell - these are the breeds of which animal?
What used to be the name of ink in Poland?
Which of the great monotheistic religions is the youngest?
What is the name of a wood carving artist?
Who was the first president of the PEN club, established in 1925?
What do we popularly call a hybrid, non-breed dog?
Who do we say has sticky hands?
Strip pricing is overpricing or underpricing?
Is coronaroplasty a dental or cardiac procedure?
On which hill of Rome was the temple of Jupiter located?
What was the name of Slawek, the Speaker of the Sejm before the war?
In old Polish law, what was the name of an inheritance left without heirs or a will?
How many competitions does the Nordic Combined consist of?
What instrument does Woody Allen play?
In which part of the body is the organ of Corti located?
Who was the first to send a radio message across the Atlantic?
Full, carriage, straight - these are terms from which game?
The same name has a sticker with the name of the goods and the applicable behavior. Which one?
From which country does armaniak, a cognac-like alcoholic beverage, originate?
Which Song and Dance group was formed earlier: "Silesia" or "Mazovia"?
What is the Latin name for presidential approval of an international agreement?
Which French city was liberated by Joan of Arc in 1429?
What is the name of the territory administered by two states?
Who played the male lead in the movie "Naked Instinct"?
A professor at which university was Jan Hus?
Is the AH1N1 virus influenza or smallpox?
What is the name of Europe's largest wild mammal?
What was Baba Yaga's hut made of in the Grimm brothers' fairy tale of Hansel and Gretel?
From which country does the Doberman dog breed originate?
From which dynasty did King Louis XV descend?
From which dynasty did Archduke Franz Ferdinand descend?
What's not a rose in the title of Stanislaw Bareja's film starring Jack Fedorowicz?
Which god was hiding under the form of a swan during his tryst with Leda?
What are the parallels with coordinates of 23 degrees 26 minutes called?
Who in Muslim tradition made the journey from Mecca to Jerusalem and later to heaven on a steed named Burak?
Who told the hero of Perfect's Autobiography to play such things that I am still ashamed?
300 seconds - how many minutes is that?
Which body part was Achilles' weak point?
Who played the lead role in the series "John Heart"?
How many stars are on the flag of Australia?
Is Amnesty International a governmental or non-governmental organization?
What contemptuous term do wizards refer to ordinary people in Harry Potter?
Do the pinch hitters play soccer or handball?
Who played the lead role in the movie "Coincidence"?
Does Ujazdowskie Avenue in Warsaw belong to the Royal Route?
Which country was attacked as a result of the Barbarossa Plan?
Every how many years is the International Festival of Contemporary Music "Warsaw Autumn" held?
Which plant reaches greater height: bamboo or sugarcane?
What is the name of the city where Covent Garden was founded in the 18th century?
What was the name of Nel the heroine in The Desert and the Wilderness?
How many times was Indira Gandhi prime minister of India?
What is the name of the disease of poor vision in low light?
In what movie does a man in a white suit pluck lilies from a pond?
What was the name of a magazine coming out in the first half of the 18th century in London?
What was the name of the Italian currency before the introduction of the euro?
What was the name of the title pilot from Stanislaw Lem's novel?
What is the name of the outer garment in the shape of a rectangular piece of cloth with an opening for the head, used by Mexican herding tribes?
Is an aquarist a person who raises fish in an aquarium or a painter with watercolor paints?
What is the nominative plural of the noun sage?
Do traditional Venetian gondolas have rudders?
What is the name of the protuberance on the horse's back, behind the neck?
What is the name of the deepest place in the Atlantic Ocean?
How many years is a Polish passport issued to adults valid?
What was the name of the choir of revellers in which Mieczyslaw Fogg performed?
How many grams are equal to the English unit ounce?
From the name of which historical figure is derived the title of the ruler - emperor?
Which September was the Polish Post Office in Gdansk attacked?
What is the name of a type of bicycle with a large front wheel and a small rear wheel?
Which dynasty reigned in Lithuania, Poland, Hungary and Bohemia in the 16th century?
How many total fingers does a person have?
Please provide a solution to the riddle: doesn't eat, doesn't drink, but walks and beats?
Brussels sprouts are a variety of cabbage or pumpkin?
What is the French name for a list of works played in a given theater at a given time?
Who is the leader and soloist of the band Kult?
What does the spectacle of naumachia represent?
On which continent does the Gobi desert extend?
Who is the author of the "treatise on good work"?
In music, what is it called to perform a piece of music from sheet music without preparation?
Was Pandora's box full of perpetual goods as well as happiness?
The Black Hancza begins its course in Poland - and in what country does it end?
On what bay is Havana located?
What is the name of the outer layer of the Sun's atmosphere?
What is the speed limit in a residential zone?
Which Roman leader said "The dice have been cast" when crossing the Rubicon?
What is the inscription on: "the living I convene, the dead I mourn"?
The epoch of what metal followed the Bronze Age?
What was the name of the designer of the first rigid airship?
What was the name of the Spanish volunteer troops that took part on the side of Nazi Germany against the USSR in World War II?
How many hulls does a catamaran have?
What distance is the sprint in track cycling?
Which Polish city was one of the largest ports in the Baltic in 1938?
What is the name of the Roman god to whom the oak, wolf and woodpecker were dedicated?
Based on whose book did Sydney Pollack direct the film "Farewell to Africa"?
In which part of the eye is the retina and macula located?
In ancient Rome, was the people's tribune an official defending the plebs or a foreign minister?
Did Poland win the Olympic gold medal in men's volleyball?
Which river is the longest tributary of the Danube?
Who is the creator of the paintings: "Saskia in the red hat", "Saskia as Flora"?
What is the science of living organisms called?
What special name was given to the uprising in Sicily in 1282?
In which country is the city of Bangkok located?
What is the name of the sound made by the hen?
What sport did Jacek Wszoła practice?
Do congruent figures have equal areas?
Which Ukrainian city is known for the Potemkin Steps?
Monday is which day of the week in English?
What does the Latin "festina lente" mean?
What is the name of the Russian alphabet in use today?
In what year did the UN begin its operations?
Are pistachio nuts and peanuts the fruit of the same plant?
What was the name of a king from Greek mythology whose touch turned everything into gold?
Hydrophobia is a panicky fear of?
What was the name of India's first ever female prime minister?
The Cervantes Institute was established to spread which language?
The parsec is a unit of distance used in which field of science?
The troops of which country suffered defeat during two battles on the Marne River during World War I?
What is the name of the pope's signet seal?
Is the livre a former Italian coin?
What is the name of trichloromethane, an anesthetic?
In what century was the Vienna opera house founded?
What is the acronym for the British Royal Air Force?
In which archipelago is Pearl Harbor located?
Who sings the song "On the Corner" to lyrics by Agnieszka Osiecka?
What statuette is the top prize at the Berlin Film Festival?
What is the basic interval of the diatonic scale called?
How many radians does the solid angle count?
What is the name of the bee family?
What is the name of the crustal vibration detection instrument?
Does the novel "A Study in Scarlet" feature the character Sherlock Holmes?
What is the Latin name for a heartbeat that is too fast and strong?
Gros is how many dozen?
From which language was the term "wiktuały" borrowed into Polish to refer to food products?
What Roman goddess was identified with the Greek Aphrodite?
What were Poseidon's attributes?
What was the name of the young farmer, the hero of the Old Tale?
Who played Lusia in the movie "No Rose Without Fire"?
In what year was the Jewish ghetto in Warsaw established?
On which day is the National Day of Remembrance of the "Soldiers of the Outlaws" celebrated?
Was Ernest Hemingway a Nobel Prize winner?
Has the band Bon Jovi ever performed in Poland?
What is the name of the work containing a list of drawings and descriptions of coats of arms?
At the mouth of which river is Kolobrzeg located?
In which city before World War II was the Racławice Panorama presented?
What is the average depth of the Baltic Sea - more or less than 100 m?
What does "dura lex, sed lex" mean?
What country is Manuel Noriega from?
In which city is there a mosque named Heart of Chechnya?
Who is the author of the paintings: "Storks", "Cranes"?
Which African country lies on the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea?
What is the name of the branch of forensic science that establishes identity based on fingerprints?
Which novel by Sienkiewicz was filmed by Alexander Ford?
On what river is the capital of Russia located?
Which American actor's real name was Marion Morrison?
Which city in the 19th century was the seat of British authority in India?
From what country did the car contemptuously referred to as a soapbox originate?
What is the name of the device for accumulating an electric charge that has Rembrandt's hometown in its name?
Which king hosted the feast given by Nicholas Wierzynek?
What is the name of a ritual Japanese suicide?
What color is the mineral azurite?
What was the highest title in the hierarchy of state positions in feudal Japan?
Is a puppet a puppet put on an actor's hand or controlled by strings?
How many meters is a kilometer?
Who among the Big Three Tenors was Italian?
Which tempo is slower: andante or adagio?
Which actor, Francis Coppola's nephew, starred in the film "Leave Las Vegas"?
Who appoints ambassadors in Poland?
What dam created Lake Nasera on the border between Egypt and Sudan?
What field of art were Edward, John and Joseph Reszka involved in?
La Cucaracha - what does the word mean?
What is the name of the involuntary repetitive contraction of facial muscles?
From which part of the body does the fish begin to spoil according to the proverb?
Was Andrzej Lapicki a member of parliament?
What is the diagram of brain function currents called?
What is the name of American actor Henry Fonda's daughter?
What is the name of a horizontal pit whose mouth is located on the mountainside?
In which city did the main character of the novel "Around the World in 80 Days" start and end his journey?
What does "manus manum lavat" mean?
On what bay of the Baltic is Helsinki located?
What field of art did Gerard Wilk practice?
What was the name of the goddess, Aeneas' mother?
What is the name of the American film director, creator of "Kill Bill," "Inglourious Basterds," and "Pulp fiction"?
In which city is the Wieniawski International Violin Competition held?
Where did Napoleon lose his last battle?
Which Italian composer dedicated an opera to the Hun leader Attila?
Whose braid was moved as a constellation?
From which opera come the words: "the fir trees are humming on the mountain top"?
What is the name of a word formed by rearranging the letters or syllables of another word?
Which partition of Poland took place in 1772?
In what city is the action of Galczynski's "The Enchanted Carriage" set?
What was the name of the Russian writer Dostoevsky?
Which branch of art did Phidias and Polyclet deal with?
In which country does the Bug River have its source?
Which princely family founded the oldest Polish museum, still operating in Krakow?
What two works of Heracles were related to horses?
What is the name of the game in which you use a ball to knock down posts?
From whose name is the title of Verdi's opera "Nabucco" derived?
How many kilometers does the Earth's radius measure at the equator?
Bronowice is a district of which city?
Since which century has Buckingham Palace been the official residence of the British royal family?
What is the name of the polygon with the least number of sides?
What is the name of the scientific discipline that studies the state and structure of the population?
What ocean is the Maldives located on?
The capital of which province is Katowice?
In 1883, a volcano erupted on the border of Sumatra and Java - what was its name?
What was the name of Eve Horeszko's daughter from Pan Tadeusz?
What was the name of the little minded bear from the popular bedtime show?
In which Caucasian state is the city of Gori located?
Who played the role of Mr. Kleks in Krzysztof Gradowski's film?
Is Luxembourg a member of the EU?
What was the name of the founder of Arianism?
Does the prime minister attend the Cabinet meeting?
What is the Polish name of the constellation Libra?
In which country was Jaroslaw Smietana, a jazz musician, born?
Can a solid change from a gaseous state to a gaseous state bypassing a liquid?
Who made King Midas grow donkey ears?
What does the term presto mean?
What is trinitrotoluene otherwise called?
Can the moon's surface temperature exceed 100 degrees Celsius?
Which metal is the best conductor of electricity?
What was the code name of the Council for Aid to the Jews?
The Super Bowl is the final game in which sport?
What lady appears in the title of Peter Tchaikovsky's opera?
In what year did Nixon step down as U.S. president because of the Watergate scandal?
What is the name of the electric device that is used to prepare toast?
Which painter painted the historical picture "The Election of Stanislaus Poniatowski"?
What is the name of Harry Potter's friend?
Complete the adage: everywhere is good, but...
In which national park does Kasprowy Wierch rise?
Whose attribute is the trident?
How many battleships did the Polish army have in September 1939?
Is the adverb conjugated by numbers?
What was Stanislaw Wiechecki's nickname?
Which ruler in the early 13th century united the Mongol and Turkic tribes?
What vehicles do Vuelta a España participants race each year?
According to whose collection of short stories did Wojciech Has make the film "Sanatorium Under the Sign of the Hourglass"?
What was the name of Vinicius' beloved?
What is the French name for a car with a folding roof?
Which tree is referred to as a smrek in highland dialect?
Is the Chinook a hot or cold wind?
Was Frederic Chopin's father, Nikolai, a Pole?
In the factory of what did the main character of the novel Carmen work?
How many times in a lifetime do agaves bloom?
Which continent are the Pygmies from?
A bushel is an Anglo-Saxon unit of area, volume or radioactivity?
How old do you have to be to be elected to the Senate?
What is the name of the system in which priests hold power?
In which city was Jan Matejko born?
Is Moscow located on the Volga River?
What country does champagne come from?
In the film "The Dictator" Charlie Chaplin played a double role. And who was the writer and director of this film?
Who played the female lead in the movie "Pretty woman"?
Which ocean is Chile located on?
Who played the role of Colonel Dowgird in "Black Clouds"?
What is the name of the second largest pyramid in Giza?
What is the smallest two-digit natural number?
What is the name of a thin pancake made of flour and water, a specialty of Jewish cuisine?
What were the names of the daughters of Atlas and Plejone, later transferred to the night sky?
What was the name of the album for which the photo was taken at Abbey Road?
What kind of animals build feeding grounds?
What strait is known as the Pillars of Heracles?
In what century was the Hanseatic League formally established in Germany?
What does it mean to say that someone is in a blessed state?
What are the names of the four front teeth in the maxilla and mandible?
Which sea does Lebanon have access to?
In Latin, what is the name for adapting a piece of music for stage performance?
What is the name of the primitive laundry organ and the weight of the packaging of the goods?
Please provide the name of the French actress with the initials B.B., who played, among others, in the film "And God Created Woman"?
In what mountains did Mieczyslaw Karlowicz die?
Is a strudel a meat dish or a cake with fruit?
On what continent is Guatemala located?
What other zodiac sign, besides Cancer and Aquarius, is related to water?
What was the name of the 1717 Diet, during which no deputies spoke?
What is the name of the capital of Cyprus?
A region of which country is Andalusia?
What is the name of unwanted emails?
What do the letters QED written at the end of a logical argument mean?
In how many Polish cities did coronations of Polish kings take place?
What was the name of the last Aztec ruler overthrown by the Spaniards under Cortez?
Who died blowing up Kamieniec Podolski?
What is the name of the science that treats animal diseases?
What is the name of a mollusk from the decapod family of cephalopods, whose secretions are used to make sepia?
What is the name of the plant where oil is processed?
What was Mrs. Dulska's name?
What is the name of the mechanical musical instrument in which the tape activates the hammer mechanism of the piano?
Which work by Przybyszewski is a manifesto of Polish modernism?
Which mode of transportation is used to carry the par avion shipment?
What was the name of the French writer, Frederic Chopin's life companion?
Absolute, theocratic monarchy still exists in Europe - in which country?
What fruit is the strong brandy Calvados made from?
Is a rhizome the underground or aboveground shoot of a plant?
How many wives did Henry VIII have?
Matzevot are tombstones of followers of which religion?
Under what form did Zeus seduce Leda?
Who cleaned out the stable of Elida's king Augias?
Is a squadron an infantry or cavalry subdivision?
Is potassium a metal?
From which royal family did Boleslaw III the Wrymouthed descend?
What sport does Maja Włoszczowska practice?
Is a mouse a species of mouse, bird, or rabbit?
Are the quadriceps muscles in the front or back of the thigh?
In which city is the film "The Pianist" set?
What is the name of an animal or plant organism that lives at the expense of another organism?
In the novel "The Godfather," what was the name of Don Corleone's youngest son?
What nationality was the composer Georges Bizet?
In which Belarusian city was a Polish air base located?
Who in the Dabrowski Mazurka set the Poles an example of how to win?
Who invented the rabies vaccine?
Under what three-letter acronym was a secret military organization known to bring together opponents of Algerian independence?
Which Greek physician is the author of the medical oath?
Which country has land borders with Mexico and Canada?
How long was Mephistopheles to be Mrs. Twardowska's husband?
Which country fought the Opium War with China in 1839-42?
In which city is Schönbrunn Palace located?
In what century did Jadwiga's wedding to Ladislaus Jagiello take place?
What was the name of the first antipope?
What was the name of the island to which Napoleon was exiled in 1814?
During the reign of which tsar did the January Uprising break out?
In what century did Tamerlan conquer the Golden Horde?
What colors appear on the flag of Israel?
Bad mood is the result of getting out of bed with which foot?
What animal appears on the coat of arms of Berlin?
What does the Latin "nolens volens" mean?
In which state is the city of Kolkata located?
According to Genesis, how many years did Matusalem live, 699, 969 or 999 years?
Which Andersen tale describes the childhood of a certain swan?
The movements of which figure cannot be imitated by a chess hetman?
In which country did the War of the Two Roses take place in the 15th century?
Which Wyspianski piece tells the story of Lucjan Rydel's wedding?
In which European city is Sheremetyevo airport located?
The Breton Peninsula is the westernmost part of which country?
Was "Pan Tadeusz" filmed before World War II?
What is the legal protection of state functionaries called?
Which planet in the Solar System has the longest period of rotation around its axis?
What is the first part of the breviary prayer called?
The Florian Psalter of the late 14th and early 15th centuries is called the psalter of which queen of Poland?
Which museum's collections can be admired in the Winter Palace in St. Petersburg?
Which ocean is the state of California located on?
What do we call a minister without his own ministry?
What is the name of the vehicle adapted to move on land and water?
Are there wolves in the Bialowieza National Park?
In what century was the International Red Cross founded?
Who invented the telephone?
Was the world trade union federation established before or after World War II?
What is the Latin name for voluntarily cooperating with the enemy to the detriment of one's own state?
What was the name of the flying island in "Gulliver's Travels"?
Who is the author of the collection of short stories entitled. "Cyberiad," published in 1965?
Who in China launched the Great Leap Forward and the Great Cultural Revolution?
What was the name of the colonel of the German General Staff who carried out the assassination attempt on Hitler?
On what continent did the Goths live?
What common name includes the islands of Cuba, Haiti, Puerto Rico, Jamaica?
He returns from the war, and she in church says: "Your wounds I am unworthy to kiss". What song is this?
What feather does the krakowiak wear in his cap?
Alpha, beta, gamma - these are the initial letters of which alphabet?
What is the name of the scene in the circus?
Is the exclamation point a distinct or unalterable part of speech?
Within which state are the cities of Jaipur, Rajpur and Madras located?
Are the Brit Awards film, music or theater awards?
In which city does the Gates of Dawn, also known as the Medininkai Gate, stand?
What is the process of recognizing someone as blessed in the Catholic Church called?
How many children did Father Virgilius have in the popular children's game?
Which ocean is El Salvador located on?
What, according to the proverb, doesn't one swallow do?
How do we play the viola - by leaning it against the shoulder or against the floor?
How many full weeks does a calendar year have?
Has the construction of the Tower of Babel been completed?
What is the name of the smallest artillery unit consisting of a cannon and its operator?
A representative of which direction in painting was Artur Grottger?
From which country does sangria, a drink made from red wine and fresh fruit, originate?
What was Marshal Rydz-Smigly's name?
In which city do soccer players play at the Santiago Bernabeu stadium?
What is the name of the point in the Moon's orbit closest to Earth?
What color is the beak of a male blackbird?
On which continent were the so-called Boer Wars fought?
Who heads Pakistan - the prime minister, the president or the king?
Did Elizabeth II carry the title of Empress of India?
In the basin of which river are the Osowiec and Red reserves located?
In which century did Boleslaw the Bold rule?
Who must when you order?
What is the name of a sanitation project to remove rodents?
On the territory of which modern country was the Olmec civilization established?
The districts of which city are the City and Westminster?
Is cheddar cheese a hard or soft cheese?
From which country did the so-called Red Brigades originate?
In what age was Thomas A. Edison born?
Does the A2 freeway cross Poland from east to west or from north to south?
How many players does an ice hockey team have?
What is the higher degree of the adverb "well"?
What is the name of a strong Portuguese wine from an island in the Atlantic Ocean?
What is the name of the soft men's cap worn to sleep?
Which two seas are connected by the Corinth Canal?
What color is the black stork's beak?
How do we define nervousness in an actor before a stage performance?
What was the name of the commander of the defense of Westerplatte?
In which city is the Stu Theatre located?
What is the greatest depth of the Baltic Sea?
What American city is located on Staten Island and Long Island, among others?
Is Cuba a member of the United Nations?
Who was the Speaker of the Four-Year Sejm at the time the May 3 Constitution was passed?
In which river did Thetis bathe her son Achilles?
Which order did James Wujek belong to?
What is a genetically determined lack or deficiency of melanin called?
In folk tales, what is the name of the devil guarding the treasures of the castle in Leczyca?
What do we call performance without words, acting expressed through facial expressions?
What were the names of the Spanish rulers who signed the edict banishing all Sephardic Jews from Spain in 1492?
Which lens focuses the rays more strongly - with a shorter or longer focal length?
Does the total length of the Kasprowy Wierch cable car exceed three kilometers?
In what city is the action of the opera Carmen set?
Is ASEAN an organization of African or Asian countries?
In what year did Germany attack the USSR?
What was the name of Chałubiński, a physician and promoter of Zakopane's medicinal qualities?
Who in Poland appoints judges?
The same name is given to the hand-thrown projectile, semi-precious stone and southern fruit. Which one?
What is the name of a celestial body that sends out cyclic pulses of radiation?
Which U.S. daily newspaper made the Watergate scandal public?
How much is the speed limit on highways in Poland?
When was the Chrysler skyscraper built in New York: before World War I or after?
MI6 and MI5 are the intelligence and counterintelligence of which country?
What nationality was Ferenc Molnar, author of "The Boys from the Bronze Square"?
What is the name of an optical recording format that uses a blue laser?
In how many parts is the so-called Venetian window divided vertically?
What is the name of the lower house of the British Parliament?
Who played the role of Wolodyjowski in Hoffmann's "With Fire and Sword"?
From which continent do the Tuaregs originate?
Is National Geographic magazine published in Polish?
How many countries does Mongolia border?
Can it be school, registration, Mendeleyev?
What was the fourth wagon in Julian Tuwim's poem full of?
How many children does Lech Walesa have?
In what year was the Battle of Borodino fought?
Which European country has the lowest population density?
What is the name of the camera's flash?
Does Vaseline dissolve in water?
What is the name of the series of three literary works?
What was the name of the fairy-tale sailor whose adventures were described by Boleslaw Lesmian, among others?
How many diagonals in a rectangle can be drawn from a single vertex?
Was Han Solo a Jedi knight?
The swearing-in of which president ended the mission of the government-in-exile?
How many official languages are there in South Africa?
Which king founded the Academy of the Noble Cadet Corps?
What was topped with an apple, a symbol of royal power?
In what century did Seneca the Younger live?
What is 1/100th of a euro called?
The capital of which country is Nairobi?
In which city is the action of the novel "The Plague" by Albert Camus set?
A bridge contract announcing the taking of twelve levs is called by another name?
Who else besides the fighters is in the boxing ring?
In which mountains is Chryszczata peak located?
What shape is the Greek letter delta?
Who composed the orchestral piece "Threnody to the Victims of Hiroshima"?
What is the name of the part of the skeleton that protects the spinal cord?
In which European country is Grenoble located?
In which country is the cave with Paleolithic Altamira paintings located?
Do juwenalia and juwenilia have the same meaning?
In which country is the Order of the National Legion of Honor conferred?
What is the name of the largest port in Europe?
What was the name of the Italian violinist Paganini?
Who played the title role in the comedy Kiler?
According to the proverb - to leave without having settled anything is to leave with...?
Does the Vatican have its own radio station?
What name did God give Jacob?
In what century did Ludwig Warynski live?
Who is the head of Australia?
How many time zones is the globe divided into?
How many times has Zdzislaw Szurkowski triumphed in the peace race?
Who is the head of state in Sweden?
In which city is the Wujek mine located?
What do we dilute rum with to make grog?
What is the name of a town in Lublin Province famous for breeding purebred Arabian horses?
What is the name of the German astronomer who constructed the three laws of planetary motion?
What was the name of Jozef Pilsudski's adjutant?
In which European capital is Piccadilly Circus square located?
What title was given to royal sons in Spain and Portugal?
Which Dutch painter painted the picture "Eating potatoes"?
Did the Polish and Lithuanian hetmans appointed by the king also command the common army?
Are puff peas a plant or a baked good?
On which continent does the buttonfish live?
What was the name of the sports club whose president was Richard Ochódzki in "The Bear"?
What is a morbid fear of heights called?
Which word was used to describe court ladies?
What is the name of aluminum oxide, the mineral hardest after diamond?
What is the name of the smallest bird?
Who is the author of the poem "What the elephant saw"?
On what occasion were the words "It's a small step for man, but a big one for mankind" uttered?
What does "bis dat qui cito dat" mean?
What is the French name for a lamp cover?
In which river do the fish sing in Arkady Fiedler's novel?
In what century did Offenbach compose the operetta "Beautiful Helena"?
How many rivers are in the fountain in Piazza Navona in Rome?
Which drink is the samovar used to prepare?
What is the name of an honorary degree conferred by universities?
The ore of which metal is sphalerite?
How often does the EU presidency change?
Which tsar of Russia was Stefan Batory at war with?
What is the name of the watertight circular window on the ship?
What is the name of the tactic of naval combat involving the tacking of ships and the fighting of crews?
What news station did Ted Turner found?
In hunting dialect, what are deer antlers called?
Which seasons does April intertwine?
Are leukocytes white blood cells or red blood cells?
The German city that was the meeting place of the victorious three in 1945 is?
"Today's doctor is a doctor of rich people" - from which novel does this quote come?
What was the name of the Swiss psychiatrist who introduced the concepts of introversion and extroversion?
What river is the capital of the United States, Washington, D.C., located on?
Antonovka is a variety of which fruit?
What was the name of the fascist party formed in Spain in 1933?
Is kindziuk a regional sausage or a plant?
In Scandinavian mythology, what were the names of the armed virgins, handmaidens of the god Odin, who heralded death to warriors on the battlefield?
What is the name of Szymanowski's villa in Zakopane?
What term do we use to describe killing and eating individuals of the same species?
By which sea is the city of Lübeck located?
Did Archimedes die a natural death?
What is the Latin name for an official reminder of financial arrears?
What is the name of the samurai code of honor?
Has a Polish woman ever become Miss World?
From which part of the habit is the Capuchins named?
The jersey in which color is worn by the Tour de France race leader?
Who painted the curtain for the theater in Krakow in 1894?
"It is sweet and honorable to die for the fatherland" - who is the author of these words?
Italian, Pekingese - which vegetable is it?
What is the Russian name for a shirt popular especially in the 19th century?
What was a paid dance partner in entertainment venues called?
After the 1969 moon landing, did the Americans land there again?
In which country is Calderon's play "Life is a Dream" set?
What is the Greek name for the art of litigation?
What did John Dunlop invent in 1888?
Which city is the film "Tonight the City Will Die" about?
Whose seat was Parnassus?
The Côte d'Azur is located on the territory of which country?
In French and German, what do we call surrounding meat in egg and breadcrumbs?
What was the name of the German philosopher, author of the "Critique of Pure Reason," who lived in Königsberg?
What is the Greek name for the branch of physics that deals with sounds?
What astronomer is the name of the airport in Wroclaw?
What is the name of a pocket watch chain?
Which plant was dedicated to Apollo, symbolizing glory?
What is the Polish name for NATO?
What is the French name for an obstacle course?
The Masai are a people living on the border between Kenya and which country?
Who was the king of Poland during the Battle of Plowce in 1331?
What is garden goldenseal otherwise called?
Are the Przewalski's horse and the Polish horse the same thing?
Is the word half a numeral?
Under which Polish king did the Kosciuszko Uprising break out?
Who was the serpent in paradise?
Which poet is the author of the poetry collections "Blue Almonds", "Pink Magic"?
What was the name of the island where the Count of Monte Christo found the treasure?
In the Catholic Church, what is the name of the decorative Easter candle?
What color is the spring snowflake flower?
In which Polish mountains is the Murowaniec mountain hut located?
What is the name of the highest peak in the Bieszczady Mountains?
"Yes, revenge, revenge on the enemy, with God and if only in spite of God" - who utters these words in the third part of "Dziady" by Adam Mickiewicz?
Kapuscinski's "Shakhinesh" tells the story of which country?
From which country does the fast ballroom dance paso doble originate?
Who captured Persepolis in 334?
Please complete the adage: an eye for an eye, ...?
Are porthole and porthole the same thing?
Which of the four planets closest to the Sun has the greatest mass?
What is the official language of San Marino?
What is the name of the direction in the theory of cognition according to which the main way of knowing is intuition?
What was the name of the witch in "With Fire and Sword"?
What is the French name for a street antiquarian?
Is tuna a marine or freshwater fish?
The OAS is a secret French organization in which African colonial state?
In which novel by Eliza Orzeszkowa is the love of John and Justyna the main plot?
How many islands are included in the Pelagian Islands, which belong to Italy?
Who built the labyrinth for the Minotaur?
Irina, Masha, Natasha or Olga - what was not the name of one of Anton Chekhov's sisters?
In which European capital does Big Ben measure the hours?
What was the name of the author of the book "The Name of the Rose"?
What is the name of the collar fastened at the back worn by the clergy?
Please provide the name of the actor playing the role of Lucjan Mostowiak.
What is the name of the mausoleum in Paris, where Marie Skłodowska-Curie, Voltaire, Victor Hugo, among others, are laid to rest?
Which French actress gave up her career in 1975 to establish a foundation for the protection of endangered wild animals?
What was the name of the writer Herling-Grudzinski?
What is the name of an electronic lamp containing three electrodes?
What is the name of an Indian boat hollowed out of a single piece of wood?
Which animal encircled the staff of Asklepios, the god of the art of medicine?
Who invented the perpetual motion machine?
Which planet orbits at a greater distance from the Sun than the Earth - Mars or Venus?
What is the Greek name for a native, an indigenous inhabitant of some lands?
The Goethe Institute's mission is to popularize which language and culture?
In which city can we walk down Piotrkowska Street?
Do storks eat mice?
In which country does the San River have its source?
What was the name of Frodo and Bilbo, the heroes of Tolkien's trilogy?
In what year did the first Silesian uprising take place?
What instrument does the flute player play?
In which country was the suffragette movement founded in 1848?
Which Greek titan swallowed his descendants in fear of losing power?
Which peninsula separates the Gulf of Mexico from the Atlantic Ocean?
"A song is good for everything". - Which cabaret performed this song?
What is the name of the Muslim cleric who calls for prayer 5 times a day?
How many legs do insects have?
In which city is the International Labor Organization located?
What is the name of the main square in Venice?
What is the official language in Nicaragua?
What instrument did Johann Sebastian Bach play?
Is cottonseed oil edible?
With what can you repay the favor?
In which city is the Maracanã soccer stadium located?
Which African country is the most populous?
According to the proverb, who burns in the old stove?
How many letters are in the classical Greek alphabet?
In what century was Austria-Hungary founded?
Kalwaria Zebrzydowska is home to the monastery of which order?
What is the name of the strong drug and the main character in the drama; the word comes from Greek?
Is a muffin a clothing item, a type of game or a cake?
Is Coco the real name of Chanel?
What is the name of the alliance of Australia, New Zealand and the U.S.?
Which actress played the lead role in the series "Life on the Spillway"?
What kind of numerals are: "first", "second"?
What is the name of the room at Wawel Castle, where the ceiling is decorated with coffers with human heads?
In what year was the Kingdom of Poland, also known as the Congress Kingdom, established?
Bellona was the Roman goddess of what?
What is the name of the platform or basket placed on top of the mast?
What is the name of a Brazilian musical style containing elements of samba?
In which country is The Economist magazine published?
Was Diego Velazquez a Dutch or Spanish painter?
What is the name of the beautiful gypsy girl, the title character of Georges Bizet's opera?
What is the name of the American actress, Woody Allen's former partner, who played the title role in Roman Polanski's Rosemary's Baby?
The Cracow Rondel is the name of which historic building in the city?
What is the name of the highest male voice?
The shape of which mathematical figure are pyramids?
In which city in Poland was the Radium Institute established on the initiative of Marie Sklodowska-Curie?
Polish jazzman Adam Makowicz is a trumpeter, pianist or violinist?
Which punctuation mark isolates quotes in the text?
Are there streetcars running around Poznań?
What color is the cross on the back of the crossbreed spider?
In what year was the so-called "Silent Sejm" held?
In which country is Serie A played?
In which city did Sherlock Holmes live?
How many vowels are in the word voiced?
Is an oryx an antelope, a dog or a cat?
What sport did Szozda play?
Does the fir tree shed its needles for the winter?
How many times in the 20th century have the Olympic Games not been held?
In which country was Albert Einstein born?
What is the Greek name for a pressure measuring device?
What is the name of the sailing and rowing competitions from Italian?
In what year did the U.S. officially enter the war?
What is the French name for a foot, nail care treatment?
What was the real name of silent film star Pola Negri?
In what does not write something that was and is not?
What did the magpie weigh in the children's poem?
What is the name of the honorary flag assistants?
Is tumulus a cloud or a barrow?
Does the highway code provide exceptions to the use of seat belts?
Mahatma is a title given to prominent spiritual leaders given in which country?
Which two countries were connected by a bridge over the Sound in 2000?
What is the name of the city that is the capital of Thailand?
What river flows through Jelenia Góra?
In what language was Warszawianka written in the original?
Up to how many years in Poland is schooling compulsory?
Whose life is described in the book entitled. "Moonwalk?"
The eruption of which volcano destroyed ancient Pompeii in 79 AD?
How many arms do squid have?
Does an amoeba have a shape?
Is the eyepatch a venomous snake?
A variety of which fruit tree is the kronsel?
Which river is longer: The Amazon or the Mississippi?
Getting a watermelon means what?
What was the name of the lion from "The Chronicles of Narnia"?
What number does LX stand for?
Who is the head of state in Ireland - the prime minister, the president or the queen?
Is Camorra the name of the Italian or Spanish Mafia?
Who played the role of Tom in "Turned Back"?
What animals are associated with singerie motifs in rococo?
How many greats were in the title of the film?
What does the phrase "pro publico bono" mean in Latin?
What is the Latin name for a secret political envoy?
When do we celebrate the Polish Army Day?
What kind of texts are diarists?
In which century did Kepler formulate the three laws governing the movement of the planets?
In what century did Hans Christian Andersen create?
What was the name of the confectionery in Krakow where the Green Balloon cabaret operated in 1905-12?
Who is the director of the films "Funeral of a potato", "Saber from the Commander"?
What is the name of the index of the largest companies on the Warsaw Stock Exchange?
Did the German state join the League of Nations after World War I?
What were the names of the heroes of the 1939 film "Vagabonds"?
How old is the oldest teenager?
What is the name of the founder and leader of the Rolling Stones band?
On which peninsula is the European part of Turkey located?
Was Händel a peer of Johann Sebastian Bach?
What in the cards is it called to give up further bidding?
Under which ruler did Gall Anonim write his chronicle?
Is pertussis an infectious disease?
What names did the French actor Belmondo bear?
What is the name of a ceremonial introduction to a piece of legislation?
What were the Soviet labor camps called?
What is the Latin name for a store dealing in old books?
Wladyslaw Baka and Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz served as president of which bank in different years?
What is the sum of the digits of the year of the Battle of Grunwald?
What was the name of the first commander of the elite GROM assault unit?
What was the name of Queen Elizabeth II's father?
What is the name of an aircraft designed to take off and land on water?
What is the name of the scene interjected into the action that disrupts the chronology?
What is water called in its solid state?
In which country was Greta Garbo born?
In which city can we visit the Namiestnikowski Palace and Ujazdowski Castle?
Can the area of a figure be expressed by a negative number?
How many times did Jesus fall during the Way of the Cross?
Did Joan of Arc come from Orleans?
What was the name of Israel's king, Solomon's father?
What electric charge does a positron have?
In which country is the musical "Evita" set?
Ildefrans are sheep, cows or horses?
Benedykt Korczynski, Anselm Bohatyrovich - are these characters from which book?
What is the name of the Australian bagger, whose favorite delicacy is eucalyptus?
Vistula Spit, Leba or Hel Spit - which one separates the Puck Bay from the open sea?
How many horsemen can be seen in Alexander Gierymski's painting "Insurgent Patrol"?
Who, according to the proverb, does not pour from the void?
In which city in Greater Poland did a student strike against the Germanization of school take place in 1902-03?
What sports does Marcin Gortat play?
What is the activity of combining quicklime with water called?
Is Turandot a Chinese princess or a Tatra prince?
For how many months of the year is the Little Bear visible over the Polish sky?
In which city did Zbyszek Cybulski die?
In which city is the Tatra Museum named after Titus Chalubinsky located?
In which city is the action of the novel "The Doll" mainly set?
From which side does the breeze blow during the day: from the land or from the sea?
What is the title of the first book of Pan Tadeusz?
What field of art does Wilhelm Sasnal practice?
What is the name of a city in Switzerland and a forage plant?
What pseudonym did Stanislaw Mackiewicz use?
What kind of love doesn't rust?
Who is the author of Antigone?
What was the name of the title character of Adam Mickiewicz's poem "Pan Tadeusz"?
A2, A3, A4 - which of these sheets of paper has the smallest dimensions?
During the reign of which French ruler was the empire style created?
Are barracuda fish predatory or herbivorous?
What is the name of actor Jan Nowicki's son, also an actor?
During which uprising did a unit of blacksmiths assist the regular army?
To which country does Norfolk Island, located in the Pacific Ocean, belong?
In which light-related unit are the vast distances between stars measured?
What is the name of the movie that tells the story of the time of the conquest of the Wild West?
Was the Polish 303 Squadron a bomber squadron or a fighter squadron?
Do penguins live in Africa?
What is the name of a coniferous tree that grows mainly in California and Oregon?
What is the name of the day of Carnival on which donuts are eaten?
What fish did the fisherman in the novel "The Old Man and the Sea" catch?
What was the name of Admiral Nelson's flagship at the Battle of Trafalgar?
Was Dr. Murek a doctor?
In what century did Edvard Munch paint the painting "The Scream"?
What is the name of the world's second deepest lake located in Africa?
Was the Marquise de Pompadour a favorite of Louis XV or XVI?
Did the conventioneer make church bells?
Do sparrows build nests?
Which Russian czar was canonized by the Orthodox Church in 2002?
In which years of the 19th century did the Congress of Vienna meet?
What did the abbreviation CK stand for in the name of Austria-Hungary?
Podiebrady is a Czech, Slovak or Austrian spa?
How many terms did Margaret Thatcher serve as prime minister?
Which planet in the solar system is called a red planet?
Who is the author of the book "King Matt I"?
Konstantinos Karamanlis and Kostis Stefanopulos were the presidents of which country?
Did the creator of the Marconi radiotelegraph receive a Nobel Prize?
What is the height of Snow Mountain above sea level?
What was the inscription on the gates of the German death camps?
Which family of lizards are masters of camouflage?
Which color is the bicycle on the road sign marking the bike path?
Which animal is the symbol of Rome?
Which army emerged victorious from the First Punic War?
Is taffeta a silk or cotton fabric?
What was the name of the light cavalry founded by Jozef Lisowski in the early 17th century?
Is iridium a metal alloy or an element?
To know what's going on with everyone is to keep a hand in...?
How many electrodes does a transistor have?
In which Warsaw park is the Palace on the Water located?
Which Polish actress founded the "Despite Everything" foundation?
From which church is the bugle played on Polish radio?
Is the chimpanzee a great ape?
How many concave angles can a quadrilateral have at most?
In what year did Tadeusz Kosciuszko take the oath of office in Krakow's main square?
Whose staunch enemy was Cato the Elder?
What is the name of Mexican agave vodka?
Against whom did Ladislaus Varnaise set out on his last expedition?
Alabaster is a white, fine-grained variety of which mineral?
Which planet were Galileo probes sent to inspect?
In which city was the peace that ended the Polish-Swedish war concluded in 1660?
Who won the Russo-Japanese War of 1904 and 1905?
In which country has a gold coin called a doubloon been minted since the 16th century?
What is the title of a Polish aviation magazine founded in 1930 and still in existence today?
Of the fourteen eight-thousanders, ten are in the Himalayas, and where are the rest?
In what month was Gretel supposed to get married?
Are proteins the building blocks of animal organisms, plant organisms or both?
How many parts does a suit consist of?
Who introduced the New Deal reform program in the U.S.?
Of the three rivers: the Rhone, the Seine or the Loire - which is the longest?
Klezmer is a colloquial term for musician or itinerant actor?
Who designed the first steel bridge over the Vistula in Warsaw?
Which bird, the symbol of knowledge, was also the symbol of Athena?
Who founded the congregation of the Missionary Sisters of Love?
What was the name of a German POW camp for officers during World War II?
What is the woodwine from "Pan Tadeusz": an undergarment, a plant or a musical instrument?
What is the process of changing the pitch of the voice in teenage boys called?
By which sea is Finland located?
Is chablis a white wine or a red wine?
In which country are the ruins of Machu Picchu located?
What is the name of the Polish rock band in which Artur Rojek was the vocalist?
What was the name of the actor playing the role of Neo in "The Matrix"?
Which number is bigger: a million million or a thousand billion?
Which female voice is lower: alto or contralto?
In which city was the first stock exchange established in 1818?
What is four raised to the cube?
Which country is the author of the Moomins books from?
What is the name of the curve that is the graph of the quadratic function?
What is the pope's term of office called? The word comes from Latin.
At what age did Alfred Nobel die?
Which river is Przemyśl located on?
In which century did the Second International establish May 1 as a labor holiday?
The miner Bulandra, the blacksmith Karlik, the warrior Zeflik - are these characters from the fairy tales of Gustav Morcinek or the Brothers Grimm?
What was the name of the author of the novel "Dead Souls"?
On the anniversary of the liberation of which concentration camp is International Holocaust Remembrance Day?
"Our merry apocalypse" is a selection of essays by a Polish philosopher. Which one?
A doctor of which specialty treats heart disease?
What is the French name for the body of a car?
What is the title of Joanna and Krzysztof Krauze's film based on the life of Poland's first Roma poet?
What is the name of the director of the films "Wall Street", "The Doors", "Born Killers"?
Whose wedding appears in the title of Mozart's opera?
How does a roof repair and roofing craftsman cover himself from German?
What is the name of the department at the university that includes the study of the language and literature of Albion?
What is the name of the blue flowering weed found in grain?
Are herbicides insecticides or herbicides?
Was the act of surrender after the Warsaw Uprising signed in Warsaw?
A migraine is severe and sudden pain in which part of the body?
What is the name of the actress who played the role of Anna German in the TV series?
What is the name of Queen Elizabeth's great-grandson, the son of Prince William and Duchess Kate?
The queen snake is a species of which insect?
Where did the idea of the Olympic Games come from?
Which work by Jan Kochanowski contains the words: "Ye who rule over common things"?
What is the name of the basic SI unit of temperature?
Which weapon was used for the first time in the Battle of the Somme?
Has the position of shogun, military governor, been subject to succession since the 12th century?
Who is the creator of the Third Program charts?
In Jan Brzechwa's poem "Entlichek, pentliczek" there was a basket on a table and an apple in it. Who lived in the apple?
What is the name of the inventor of the lightning rod?
How many years did the Jagiellonian dynasty reign in Poland: about 150, 180 or 250 years?
How did Heracles put the Nemean lion to death?
Dysgraphia is a disorder of which skill?
In what year did Winston Churchill first become prime minister?
Is Volhynia located in Lithuania, Ukraine or Belarus?
What city is the capital of the Malopolska province?
How many hectares is a square kilometer?
Is there a world championship being held in cycling ball?
Which city was home to the Government in Exile until 1990?
One hectare - how many acres is that?
Which country is Andrea Bocelli from?
Who was the creator of Helios' chariot, Ares' armor, Eros' arrows?
Which country was Remarque, author of the novel "The Arc de Triomphe," from?
Were Mark Antony and Cleopatra married?
Which city is the capital of Colombia?
What do we call a sudden, severe headache?
Which EU country has the largest surface area?
What is the name of the oldest part of the Talmud?
Please quote the first words of the British anthem in Polish?
Which Krakow cabaret was Piotr Skrzynecki associated with?
Which number is larger: the square root of 9 or the cube root of 27?
What is the French term for an artist's first public appearance?
In songs, what is the repeating part of the lyrics and melody after each stanza called?
In which city does the route of the Stations of the Cross follow the Via Dolorosa?
What was the name of Agamemnon's wife?
In which city is there a fountain with a peeing boy?
A cyclist, a trumpeter and an astronaut all bear the same name - what name?
Who was Clara from Revenge in love with?
Were FIAT cars manufactured in Poland before World War II?
What is the Greek name for the common act of grace?
The dark side of which celestial body did Pink Floyd include in its album?
What was the name of the writer and philosopher, author of the poem "Winnie the Fatalist and his master"?
Which saint helps you find lost items?
Who sings the song "Eurydice dancing"?
During World War II, what were Polish newspapers published with the approval of the occupying forces called?
Is the British national anthem also the anthem of Australia?
In what century did French philosopher Denis Diderot live?
What is the name of the capital of Venezuela?
What is the name of Canada's currency?
What is the name of the former cattle harness and bondage?
In what century did St. Bernadette live?
Is a serviette a type of cabinet or table?
Is volleyball - acrobatic exercises on a galloping horse - a sport?
What is the name of potatoes cut into strips and fried in oil?
What feast takes place during the octave of Corpus Christi in Krakow?
In what province is Ruciane-Nida located?
What was the name of the main character of the novel "Wuthering Heights"?
Did the May 3 Constitution introduce heredity of the throne?
Are polio and infantile paralysis the same disease?
Who was running Wokulski's store?
Which capital letter of the alphabet denotes Newton's constant of gravity?
A decade - how many years is that?
In which province is Zamosc located?
Who is the leader and soloist of the band Wolves?
Is drabant an old Polish dance?
Who in Greek mythology stole fire from the Olympian gods?
Promil - what part of the total?
Whose wife was Bona Sforza?
How many times has the World Cup been held in France?
Fisz and Emade are contemporary music creators, the sons of which artist?
Using the seeds of which plant can you identify the princess?
Which channel connects the Aegean Sea to the Ionian Sea?
On which ocean is the Azores located?
Who was Leszek the White to Konrad Mazowiecki?
Which Polish goalkeeper stopped England?
1246 is an even number?
What is the name of the Christmas mass?
What is the name of the song of the gondoliers?
In which country in the Po Delta is the city of Ferrara located?
In which Swiss city did John Calvin spend the last 20 years of his life?
In which century did the first breaking of the Diet by liberum veto occur?
Under what name did the events in France in 1871 go down in history?
How many weight categories exist in sumo?
What element has the symbol B?
What is closer to the body than a dress according to the proverb?
Who was Alice of Wonderland chasing when she fell into the burrow?
Does Mars have an atmosphere?
In which month did a mass protest of workers take place in Poznan in 1956?
Which city was the seat of the Austrian authorities in Galicia after the first partition of Poland?
Which planet of the solar system shines with its own light?
What was Lot's wife turned into?
What term derived from Greek is called the Stone Age?
What was the name of the Italian painter Modigliani?
How many times is the volume of a cone smaller than the volume of a cylinder with the same base?
What is the name of the filling for dumplings or pancakes? The word comes from the French language.
Expand the acronym "CBŚ."
With the leaves of which plant did Adam and Eve cover their intimate areas?
Which cyclist is the general director of the Tour de Pologne race?
Who played the title role in the Rambo film series?
With which Greek deity was Liber, the Ancient Greek god of the harvest, identified?
In what century was Barcelona architect Antonio Gaudi born?
Whose nephews were Dyzio, Hyzio and Zyzio?
Which British writer introduced the concept of Big Brother into literature?
Which zodiac sign prevails in late December and early January?
What do we call the image formed after splitting white light into components of different lengths?
Until what year was the so-called Little Constitution of 1946 in effect?
In what age did Salvador Dali create?
How many colors does the flag of Ukraine consist of?
A black flag with a skull and two tibias - who flies such a flag?
Which country is Giorgio Armani from?
The leader of which band is Muniek Staszczyk?
Do methane, ethane, propane, butane belong to hydrocarbons?
What is the name of the Tatra pass connecting Zawrat and Krzyżne?
Calypso is the moon of which planet in the solar system?
Which novella by Maria Konopnicka featured the Mostowiak family?
Which of the Grabski brothers, Wladislaw or Stanislaw, was the Minister of Finance?
In which lake district is Lake Sniardwy located?
What is the Muslim name of God the Creator?
What else is mustard gas called?
Which country occupies 1/8 of the Earth's land area and borders 14 countries on land?
What is the Italian name for an arch supported by two supports?
Which country hosted the 2014 World Cup?
Which country occupied British-owned Singapore in 1942?
What was the name of an 18th- and 19th-century Spanish painter depicting the horrors of war?
What is the name of the serous membrane covering the abdominal organs?
In which European city is its oldest part surrounded by the Aurelian Walls?
What is the name of an Indian war trophy in the form of skin stripped from a skull?
What is the Greek name for an exaggerated belief in one's own worth, a mania for greatness?
Galicianisms are borrowings from which language?
What does "Jack the Ripper" mean in English?
From which language does the abbreviation LTD for limited liability company come?
In which language did Virgil write the Aeneid?
The protagonist of which Makushinsky novel is Ewa Tyszowska?
According to Arthurian legends, what was the name of King Arthur's wife, Lancelot's beloved?
What is the name of the famous satirist Laskowik?
What was the name of the Roman philosopher, Nero's tutor?
Who was the last president of Czechoslovakia?
What musical instrument does Bill Clinton play?
Do penguins have wings?
Is an enduro a car rally or a motorcycle rally?
What was the name of a slender jug with vertical handles in ancient Greece?
The Life of Which Man is the title of one of Nikolai Rej's works?
In which Italian city is there a statue of Marcus Aurelius?
In which Italian city is the so-called leaning tower, the bell tower of the local cathedral?
What is the name of the hunchbacked jester, the hero of Verdi's opera?
Do you bake or fry the fava beans?
With the history of which city is the legend of the Golden Duck associated?
What was the name of the bard of Apollo's oracle?
Which city were the blue streetcars that Maria Koterbska sang about?
Which director's wife is actress Emmanuelle Seigner?
What is the name of the billiards without a bow, as well as the collision of multiple cars?
Which city was the main port of ancient Athens?
To whom did the Delphic oracle prophesy that he would kill his own father and marry his mother?
How many official languages are there in Belarus?
Which goddess was born from the sea foam?
What color is Winnie the Pooh's mug?
What do we call a celestial body orbiting a planet in an orbit?
Is the person expressing himself colloquially using literary or colloquial language?
The Pod Buda group asked in a song not to move the capital to which city?
In which coastal city is the Polish Film Festival held?
In chess, what is a move that causes a direct threat to the king called?
Are spaniels hunting dogs?
On whom, according to the saying, is the cap gore?
Which rank is higher: colonel or commander?
In which of Molière's comedies was a statue of a commander invited to the supper?
What is the name of the outer layer of the brain hemispheres?
Dawn, Morning Star - which celestial body do these names refer to?
What is the name of the F1 race track in Lombardy?
Who in the TV series "Alternatives 4" played the wife of a housewife?
In which city is Hipolit Cegielski's factory located?
What was the name of the Russian physiologist who introduced the term conditioned reflex?
What used to be the name of the heated iron cartridge?
Does Mount Kosciuszko in Australia measure more than 3,000 meters high?
Which animals do ornithologists deal with?
What did Stefan Wiechecki refer to as a "barrel radio"?
Which religion is dominant in Romania?
What was the name of the king of Phrygia with donkey ears?
Which element has the symbol W?
How many National Parks do we have in Poland - less or more than 20?
What is the name of the capital of the Świętokrzyskie province?
Which strategic facility was to be captured by the heroes of the movie "Commandos of Navarona"?
What is the sum of the eyes on the six faces of the dice?
In the 12th and 13th centuries, what was the name of the official in charge of a castle or stronghold and an adjacent district?
Where is the west wind coming from?
Which day is Barbórka traditionally held?
Is the synagogue a place of prayer for Protestants, Catholics or Jews?
Was Bernard Shaw the winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature?
What are the names of the blue people from the children's evening show?
In which country did Queen Catherine of Medici reign?
On which river is Plock located?
Is an aerostat a lighter or heavier-than-air device?
In what Italian city is the Trevi fountain located?
Anna Jagiellonka completed after the death of Sigismund Augustus which investment: the bridge or the church?
At samples of which metal is a woman's head found?
Cyprus gained its independence before or after World War II?
Are barberry fruits edible?
What nationality was the woman Jesus met at Jacob's well in the Gospel according to St. John?
Did Prince Joseph Poniatowski take part in the Battle of Waterloo?
What was the name of the queen of Egypt from the Ptolemaic dynasty who died in 30 BC?
Are mating dogs a northern or southern sky constellation?
What is the name of the title character of Daniel Defoe's novel, who spends many years alone on a desert island?
If I say tomorrow is Thursday, which day of the week is today?
Is paper a European or Asian invention?
What shape is the scar on Harry Potter's forehead?
Nagorno-Karabakh is the largest Armenian enclave within which country?
The premiere of "Dziady" directed by Wyspianski took place in the 19th or 20th century?
Who was to say, "And yet it moves"?
What is the name of the short allegorical story and the mathematical conic curve?
What is the official name of dandelion?
Who, according to the proverb, does the Lord God guard?
In the Teutonic state, what was the name of the administrator of a district consisting of one or more castles and an adjacent territory?
Into which sea does the Thames flow?
Are setters a breed of hunting dog?
Through which ocean does the Gulf Stream flow?
What do we call sailing against the wind in German?
In which legal act is the capital of Poland specified?
What is the name of the object for measuring the length and frequency of an electromagnetic wave?
Etna, Stromboli, Tambora - which volcano does not rise in Italy?
Are algae eaters fish or snails?
What is the name of the indigenous people of Papua New Guinea?
To tell someone the whole truth - is to play what cards?
Does the Rhône River flow through Switzerland?
Blackbirds are a breed of which animals?
What kind of utilitarian and artistic products did Ćmielów become famous for?
What was the river that the kitten in Tuwim's poem dreamed of full of?
From which language does the term "surrealism" come?
Which director received three Oscars for best foreign language film?
Which well-known work of the Polish Enlightenment bears the subtitle "or the War of the Monks"?
Please provide the exact date of the Soviet aggression against Poland during World War II.
In which province is the Kampinos National Park located?
The virtuoso of which instrument is Tomasz Stanko?
In which European capital are the Champs Elysees located?
By what property are the elements in the Mendeleev system ranked?
In what century was the Corinth Canal built?
In which city were the shell courts held?
What is the name of the news program broadcast on the first program every day at 7:30 pm?
Which two basic styles are distinguished in wrestling?
In what year did Wanda Rutkiewicz become the first European woman to conquer Mount Everest?
In which country was Szczecin located in 1938?
On which continent does the raccoon rodent live?
How many players does the water ball team have?
Are blackbirds and corsairs the same thing?
How many stars appear on the flag of Cuba?
Who, according to the proverb, should not be called out of the woods?
Is the Augustow canal longer than 100 km?
In what mountains in Poland are there deposits of marble?
What is the name of the tree in the pine family that sheds its needles for the winter?
Who, besides Mozart and Beethoven, were among the three Viennese classics?
Do black swans exist?
What is the color of the table in the children's enumeration "Entwiny pentliczek"?
What is the name of the four-time Olympic champion in walking?
To how many times a piece according to the proverb?
Which part of Pinocchio's face changed appearance when he lied?
Gibraltar is an overseas territory of which country?
In which ocean is the island of Ceylon located?
How many Polish cities have two subway lines?
In what language did Horace and Virgil write?
Which Israeli king captured Jerusalem in the 10th century BC. Jerusalem?
Was the musket counted as a white weapon?
Who is the author of the painting "Hanging of the Sigismund Bell"?
What is a significant increase in the value of securities on the stock market called?
Did Julian Ursyn Niemcewicz take part in the Kosciuszko Uprising?
In German, what is good parenting called?
Which country does Corsica belong to?
What besides the head is a school excuse?
In which city is the Hybrid student club headquartered?
What is the name of the body of small aquatic organisms floating passively in the depths of the oceans and seas?
On top of which mountain does Cordian deliver his monologue?
"Battleship Potemkin" is a silent or sound film?
What current country was once called the Union of South Africa?
Which pedal in a piano is used to extend the sounds?
What is the Latin name for the right to break off the Diet by a single deputy?
What was the name of the belt of fortifications built after World War I in northeastern France?
A formicarium is a container for observing which animals?
In what year was the liberum veto abolished?
How many cubic centimeters are contained in a cubic meter?
What is the name of the peninsula separating the Gulf of Mexico from the Caribbean Sea?
What language is spoken in Mexico?
What is the name of the city that, according to legend, was supposed to be founded by Wars and Sawa?
How many years has Prohibition been in effect in the U.S.?
How many seeds does the date palm fruit have?
Is the game of sudoku a Japanese invention?
What is the name of the oldest thermoplastic plastic from which photographic film is made?
What is the name of a hand tool for cutting grass and grain?
The movie "Revenge of the Sith" is about the Knights of the Round Table or the Jedi knights?
What is the name of the last letter of the Greek alphabet?
Do frogs belong to the vertebrates?
How many chambers does the Russian parliament consist of?
What was the temporalik used for?
Which singer launched the hit songs "Poker face", "Paparazzi"?
Who is the author of the political comedy titled. "Return of the MP?"
A wreath made from the leaves of which bush contains a scout cross?
In what year did the Czech monk Gregory Mendel live?
Who granted the privilege of Kosice to the nobility in the 14th century?
The court painter of which English king was Hans Holbein son who lived at the turn of the 15th century?
What is the name of the titular police lieutenant played by Telly Savalas?
Is Genesis the Book of Genesis or the Book of Exodus?
Which vegetable is the primary ingredient in burrito stuffing?
Which Warsaw castle is associated with the legend of the golden duck?
What is the name of the tune played every hour from the tower of St. Mary's Church?
In what meter are waltzes composed?
Was El Greco of Greek descent?
What was the name of the Egyptologist who found Tutankhamun's tomb?
Which modern European country is ruled by King Harald V?
What is the name of the fabric derived from the capital of Syria?
With which mountains are the stories of Liczyrzepa associated?
Who in the scout song tells the ancient story?
Is France's Libération a daily or a weekly?
Which American city is located in the District of Columbia?
The protagonist of which novel by Witold Gombrowicz is Professor Pimko?
In what century was the first Great Pardubice held?
Which country does Hawaii belong to?
What is the name of the beheading machine?
Cyclamen is Polish for which flower?
What do we call a fashion magazine in French?
What is the title of Poland's oldest women's magazine?
For what reason are state flags lowered to half mast?
As water freezes, does it increase or decrease in volume?
Which Queen of Scotland was beheaded in 1587 on the orders of Elizabeth I?
How did Jan Hus die?
In which ocean is the island of Cuba located?
What is the developmental form of insects called between the larva and the adult form?
What currency is used in India?
Is there a difference between a stanza and a stanza?
In Roman mythology, what was the name of the god of wine, equivalent to the Greek Dionysus?
Are Cerberus and Argos the same character?
Did Italy declare war on the USSR?
Which ruler in 44 BC was stabbed in the Roman Senate?
What is the name of the basic aromatic hydrocarbon with the formula C6H6?
What is the name of the rhomboid-shaped noodles made from eggs, flour and potatoes?
What church degree did Wincenty Kadlubek have?
Does the EU support social integration ventures?
Which weapon should be buried ending the dispute?
Which river flows into the Vistula River in Bydgoszcz?
In what year, called the Year of Africa, did 17 African countries gain independence?
What was the name of the German doctor who discovered the tubercle bacillus?
Which actress played the lead role in the movie "Farewell to Africa"?
According to the proverb, who is not as scary as they paint him?
Where did the selfie stand in Brzechwa's poem?
Does boxwood shed its leaves for the winter?
Is the title of marquis higher than that of count?
What is the name of the actor playing the lead role in the movie "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest"?
Which zodiac sign is an arachnid?
Does the Baltic Sea have a connection to the Black Sea?
What is the name of Europe's second longest river after the Volga?
What material was covered with the cylinder on which the sound was first recorded?
Who was the author of the pre-war advertising slogan "sugar solidifies"?
From which continent do the oldest known stone tools come?
Which U.S. state is home to the Kennedy Space Research Center?
Decipher the acronym GOPR.
In which Polish city does Antalowka hill rise?
Which novel by Victor Hugo features the Parisian streetwalker Gavroche?
In which century was the concept of war crimes introduced into the law and practice of war?
Who in Greek mythology was the goddess of law and justice?
On which continent is the Baribal bear found?
What is the tenth of a percent called?
Is the macaw a protected bird in Poland?
Does light in a vacuum propagate at the same speed as in air?
The baby shrew is a species of which flying mammal?
Is there rice in the Japanese dish sushi?
What color are the glasses of an optimist?
What is the abbreviation for France's high-speed railroads?
What did the odd duck turn into at the end of Jan Brzechwa's fairy tale?
What is the name of the smallest church bell?
What was the name of the third US president?
What is the Greek word for dislike of foreigners?
What is the name of the largest bell in the world?
What do we call in Latin the period after law school that prepares people for the work of a judge, lawyer?
Who was the king of Poland on May 3, 1791?
What is the name of the supreme legislative body provided for by the May 3 Constitution?
Who is the author of the poem that begins with the verse: "There was a grandfather and a grandmother"?
The base of which navigational instrument on a ship is a cabinet called a naktuz?
On which river is Paris located?
In which city does Pole Mokotowskie extend?
In which European capital was the European Union reform treaty signed in December 2007?
What was the name of the ship whose commander was Neil Armstrong?
Birbant is otherwise a hulk or a miser?
Who wrote the book "Conversations with the Executioner"?
Which country owns the Costa Brava coast?
In which city is Tygodnik Powszechny published?
What is the name of the author of the novel "Wuthering Heights"?
The symbol of which party in the U.S. is the donkey?
The protagonists of which novel by Jaroslaw Iwaszkiewicz were Jola and Julcia?
Which character in Fredro's "Revenge" says: "heaven's will be done"?
Laminate is a single or multilayer plastic?
What word was the solution to the Sphinx's riddle spoken by Oedipus?
Vine snails are protected in Poland, and they can only be harvested in one month - which month?
What letter in physics is denoted by the so-called Planck's constant?
Who commanded the 10th Motorized Brigade in the September campaign?
Which Polish writer was the lighthouse at Cape Rozewie named after?
Which is bigger: a liter or one cubic decimeter?
Which sport do Mariusz Fyrstenberg and Marcin Matkowski practice?
How many days is August?
Does the Oedipus complex occur in boys or girls?
What is the name of the mezzanine, the separated upper part of a high room?
What denomination banknote features King Sigismund the Old?
What is the occurrence of the same element in different forms with different physical properties called?
The co-founder of which literary group was Julian Tuwim?
Au is the symbol for which element?
What flying out with a sparrow returns with an ox?
The sisters Hanna and Jadwiga are the heroines of which opera by Stanislaw Moniuszko?
What is the name of the mansion near Paris, the construction of which was started by Louis XIII?
On which island did Napoleon Bonaparte die?
Are the Carpathian Mountains folded, logged or volcanic?
What does the Latin secundo mean?
What is the name of the constellation Aquarius in Polish?
What in English do we call a sharpshooter?
What do we colloquially call a person who arbitrarily occupies some apartment?
Is it possible to cross from Europe to Asia via a bridge over the Bosphorus Strait?
In which century did the Romans finally destroy Carthage?
What was the name of Antek's wife from the novel "Peasants"?
What letter did the first Ford model bear?
In which of Wyspianski's dramas does the Bohemian appear?
From which language is the word "film" derived?
What is the acronym for the Federal Bureau of Investigation in the United States?
How many parts does a sari consist of?
Can women be priests in the Anglican Church?
In what year did the Kosciuszko Uprising break out?
What high Tibetan official resides in the Potala Palace?
To whom was Chopin's F minor concerto dedicated?
What is calcium called in Latin?
Woodcarving is the art of carving in which material?
In what year did Kosciuszko issue the Polaniecki Uniwersal?
What was the name of the legendary land of gold in South America sought by the Spanish conquistadors?
Did Stanislaw Moniuszko compose cantatas?
Which country has official Italian and Latin languages?
What is the Greek name for a panicky fear of the dark?
What does the word insurrection mean?
How did Anna Karenina, the heroine of Leo Tolstoy's novel, die?
Is Ceylon the name of the country?
Lutz, Axel, Salchow - these are terms associated with which sport?
What was the name of the prince of Transylvania who became king of Poland?
What were the priestesses guarding the sacred fire called?
In what century did the Grand Vizier Kara Mustafa live?
The title of which drama according to superstition should not be pronounced in the theater?
At the foot of which mountains lies the Chocholowska Valley?
What are the characteristics of the so-called white line?
In which country is Bern located?
The apostolic nuncio is the equivalent of which government official?
Which ocean pours over Africa from the east?
What does "gloria victis" mean in Latin?
In what century was Maxwell's "Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism" published?
Who was the Greek equivalent of the Roman Diana?
In which city in Belgium is there a diamond trading center?
Which war did the 1921 Treaty of Riga end?
Which April Fool's Day did April Fool's Day fall on this year?
Norma Jeane Baker is the real name of which actress?
What do we call, in Latin, the apprenticeship of people after law school preparing for the profession of judge, prosecutor?
What is the name of the lower house of the French parliament?
What is the official language in Egypt?
1/5 - how many percent is that?
What is the name of Ireland's capital city?
What is the name of the Hutsul wind instrument in the form of a straight pipe?
How many beams does a private have on his uniform?
What, in German, is the name of a hunting break-action weapon with three barrels?
Which word in the sentence "this house is tall" is an adjective?
Who took over the assets of the League of Nations, which was dissolved in 1946?
Which Beatle recorded the song "Set my mind on you"?
Which objects appear in Salvador Dali's painting "Persistence of Memory"?
What was the nickname of the robber played by Witold Pyrkosz in Janosik?
Does the Great Barrier Reef stretch along the western or northeastern coast of Australia?
What vehicles can be driven with a category A driver's license?
What is the title of the ballad that begins with the words: "Listen ninny, she does not listen"?
What is the singular complement of the noun museum?
Is there a double bemoan in the musical notation?
Finish the saying: "There is no smoke without..."?
What color is the gemstone azurite?
What element has the symbol Ti?
The agent of which agency was played by Robert Redford in the movie "Three Days of the Condor"?
Which garment size is bigger - S or M?
What was the name of the highest military rank in Lithuania and the Crown?
What is an iron-carbon alloy with up to 2% carbon content called?
What is the common name for calcium carbide, used to produce acetylene?
The SP mark indicates the aircraft's affiliation with which country?
What is the name of the oval plate on which the painter mixes the paints while painting?
What was the name of an Old Polish men's garment, a long dress worn under the kontusz?
Who in John Brzechwa's poem is sanctimoniously convinced that "the ground is good education"?
From which city does the Czerniakowska Band originate?
In what year did Reymont receive the Nobel Prize?
What was the name of Mieszko I's son, who took over from his father?
How many chambers does an amphibian heart have?
What is the name of the largest right-bank tributary of the Warta River, which flows through Lake Goplo?
The mother saved Moses by putting him in a basket and letting him go on which river?
Where, according to the saying, should words not be thrown?
How many seconds is an hour?
What is the name of a teacher, master, guide in Hinduism?
Into which river did Wanda throw herself, which did not want a German?
Toward which city do Muslims turn during prayer?
Which country was Maurice Chevalier from?
Hebrew name meaning "she who gives life"?
To which Polish city does the German name Breslau refer?
What color is the most common ladybug in Poland?
What did Madej, the hero of the folk tale, do for a living?
Please name one of the world's tallest hydroelectric dams on the Colorado River, near Las Vegas.
Courteous style is tact and courtesy or malice?
Which uprising was started by the so-called "belvedere"?
The eagle in the Polish emblem has its head turned to its right or left?
In what field of art does a prima ballerina perform?
What is the name of the American awards called the television Oscars?
In what century was the Queen Sophia Bible published?
Who is the author of the novel "Mr. Grant's Children"?
In which lake district is the Borecka Forest located?
In which language did Jerzy Kosinski write?
Whose name is the PTTK shelter at Morskie Oko named after?
What is the name of the conductor's baton?
What is the name of the conductor's baton?
Zenit, Dynamo, Spartak are the football teams of which European league?
Who persecuted the innocent Susanna in the Old Testament?
What is the name of the Polish actress, wife of Stanislaw Dygat?
What was the nickname of General Emil Fieldorf?
Which Warsaw district has the same name as one of the European capitals?
In what century did the Pugachev uprising take place in Russia?
What is the final period of the Stone Age called?
Is Robert Zimmermann the real name of Sting or Bob Dylan?
In what language is the Vulgate written?
Which endocrine gland secretes melatonin?
Who is the author of the ballad "Świtezianka"?
Who played the role of a working woman in the TV series "Forty Years Old"?
What was the profession of Koszałek-Opałek, one of the dwarfs in the fairy tale "O dwarfs and orphan girl Marysia"?
What will be collected when we put together grain to grain?
In what century did Armenian composer Aram Khachaturian create?
Is stevia a sweet or salty tasting plant?
Please provide the names of the main couple around which the plot of "The Deluge" revolves?
From which country's cuisine did sushi originate?
Jelitkowo and Brzeźno are neighborhoods of which Polish city?
What was the name of the author of the phrase "To your health"?
What is the complement of the word cocoa?
What is the name of the Jewish tombstone?
What sport did Steffi Graff play?
What is the name of an ancient hunting weapon with a long spar, now used as equipment in athletics?
On the territory of which countries extends the Hindu Kush?
Which ocean is Kenya located on?
From what continent do guppy fish originate?
Under which king of France is The Three Musketeers set?
Sasha, Flea, Anita - these are the characters in which play by Janusz Glowacki?
What, in French, is the name of the prime minister's program speech?
Which bird "thought about Sunday, and on Saturday his head was cut off"?
What was the name of the instructor at the Warsaw Officer Cadet School, the leader of the conspiracy that led to the outbreak of the November Uprising?
Was Petronius from Quo Vadis a historical figure?
Has Daniel Olbrychski starred in all the film adaptations of Jerzy Hoffman's Trilogy?
Which day is longer: the stellar day or the average solar day?
In what century did Wit Stwosz carve the Marian altar?
What is the name of the division of the nucleus, in which there is no change in the number of chromosomes?
What is the name of the country through which Asia's longest river, the Yangtze, flows?
How many popes were named Urban?
What is the name of the presider at prayer in the mosque?
From which drama is the quote: "The peasant is power and basta?"
What unit in ancient Rome was divided into 12 ounces?
In which country did the July Revolution, the so-called "three days of glory," take place in 1830?
What was the name of President Narutowicz's assassin?
Did St. Peter come from Galilee or Jordan?
The letter H is the abbreviation for which country in international traffic?
What is the name of a river valley with a narrow bottom and steep, rocky slopes?
What literary period is Eugene Onegin from?
In which city does the Forest Opera House, the site of festivals, stand?
What is the French name for a couch shaped like an elongated armchair on which one can rest in a semi-reclining position?
Alexander Walewski's mother was Maria, and who was the father?
Who died being stabbed in the heel by Paris with an arrow?
During which war is the action of the novel Colombians set?
Did the Big Three at Potsdam perform in the same lineup as at Yalta?
Belle époque is the period before or after World War I?
Is a yurt a tent of nomadic peoples of Asia or Indians?
Who is entitled to the courtesy title of magnificence?
What do we call our 50th wedding anniversary otherwise?
The image of which Polish king appears on the 500 zloty banknote?
Did children participate in the crusades?
What is the Latin name for a list and correction of errors, spotted after printing?
In what century did the art déco art direction take place?
In which city was Jan Kazimierz University located before the war?
What is the name of the missed shot, as well as the prison?
How much is 45 - 15?
How many years is the term of office of the Chairman of the Swiss Federation Council?
Do chimpanzees and gorillas have a tail?
What is the current name of the ancient city of Byzantium?
What is the name of the Polish director, Jadwiga Baranska's husband?
In which city did Juliusz Kossak live and die?
Are Pippin, Sam and Merry hobbits or elves?
From which dynasty did Osman I, Suleiman the Magnificent come?
The young farm animal and the trailing candy are...?
What year was the 150th anniversary of the January Uprising?
Who should be listened to according to the Roman saying "audiatur et altera pars"?
What was Gervase's rapier called?
Is Chad carbon monoxide or carbon dioxide?
Which continent is closest for a resident of Madagascar?
Which animals in the novel "Dracula" are called children of the night?
What was the name of the famous queen of Babylon, known for her hanging gardens?
In which city did Madame Tussaud establish a wax figure gallery?
What colors appear on the flag of Greece?
What is the name of the mountain range that lies on the border between France and Spain?
Who wrote the novel "On the Niemen"?
A cavalry rank is equivalent to what rank in the infantry?
From which country does saree mustard originate?
What do miners call a worker's shift in a mine?
What is the name of a light rocket dropped from an airplane on a parachute to illuminate a landing or firing point?
Whose skull is Hamlet holding in his monologue?
HDD stands for a type of processor or computer hard drive?
What two objects does the Warsaw Mermaid hold in her hands?
Is a mikveh a type of headgear worn by Jews?
What does the term "vivo" mean in music?
What is the name of the craftsman who casts the bells?
The army of which country suffered defeat at Cannae in 216 BC?
What was the name of the Grand Master at Grunwald?
How many right angles can a triangle have?
What is the name of the largest living contemporary representative of the cat family?
Is the Statue of Liberty more than 100 years old?
What was the nickname of Grey Regiments soldier Tadeusz Zawadzki?
How many musicians does an octet consist of?
Is a dielectric a material that conducts electricity well?
Are there lakes in Antarctica?
How many pieces does each player have in hexagonal chess?
What was the name of the director of the films "Teddy Bear" and "Wife for an Australian"?
What is the name of the field of medicine that deals with the diagnosis and treatment of allergies?
In which city is the Bollywood film studio located?
Kurza Stopka is the east wing of which Polish castle?
Did Kornel Makuszyński bring to life Koziołek Matołek before or after World War II?
Who is the author of the crime novel "Mousetrap"?
What is the name of the thriller film genre in Polish?
What does the protagonist of Franz Kafka's book "The Transformation" turn into?
In which ancient state did a provincial administrator carry the title of satrap?
What is the name of the section of Christian writing that includes the lives of saints and legends about them? The name comes from the Greek.
Who played the lead role in the movie "Breakfast at Tiffany's"?
In which mountains does the Yeti allegedly live?
Was Mieszko II the younger brother of Mieszko I?
What is the name of the American actress, Warren Beatty's sister?
Are polio and infantile paralysis the same disease?
What does "verbum nobile" mean?
Did Shakespeare also create non-theatrical works?
In what country is the Order of the Elephant awarded?
Which Russian city is the largest?
Who was the father of Helen of Troy?
What was Deyna's name?
Which letter in the Morse alphabet is indicated by the three dots?
Which country does Lviv belong to?
Who was the father of Queen Elizabeth I of England?
According to Hippocrates' character classification, a sanguinarian is a calm or lively person?
Please complete the proverb: "He who likes himself is..."?
With which country did Poland wage a war that ended with the Peace of Bautzen between 1002 and 1018?
What does the Latin "vice versa" mean?
In which Polish city is the Temple of Divine Providence located?
Please provide the names of Maradona.
Was the judge in Pan Tadeusz a relative of the Soplice family or the Horeszko family?
Which Spanish-speaking city does the state have the most population?
How many stars are on the EU flag?
Who in the Anglican Church appoints bishops and archbishops?
How many trips around the world did James Cook make?
What sports game has the same name as the photosensitive membrane in the eye?
What is the name of the rodent and the control device for the computer?
How many battles at Chocim did the Poles fight against the Turks?
How many times have the IOs been held in Japan?
What is the name of the science that deals with the language, culture and history of the Czech Republic?
What part of the garment does "rubashka" mean in Russian?
The king of which city was Egeus?
Which university in the U.S. is the oldest?
In which country is the city of Acapulco located?
What inscription did Staś Tarkowski carve on the rock of Kilimanjaro?
What was the name of Queen Hedwig's father?
Something conquered with effort we say it's a hard piece...?
Did Hannibal live before Christ or after Christ?
In what year was the 1st Infantry Division named after Tadeusz Kosciuszko established?
In 1943, a conference of Allied leaders was held in Casablanca. Was Stalin there?
What does the proverb say harms beauty?
What is the English name for awarding a victory to a team or player without a fight?
What role did Janusz Gajos play in the series "Four Armored and a Dog"?
What is the name of the resort town in Kujawsko-Pomorskie known for the "Rainbow" band?
What is the name of the actor who played the role of Iron Man?
What was the name of the English physicist who carried out the first artificial nuclear reaction, for which he won the Nobel Prize?
Which French marshal commanded the defense at Verdun?
Which Warsaw museum awards the Jan Rodowicz "Anoda" prize?
Is Bunraku a Japanese theater or a Chinese theater?
On which continent is Brunei located?
Swedes are a subspecies of which oilseed plant?
Which Italian artist is the author of such works as "Pieta", "David"?
Are elderberries edible?
In what century did Francesco Petrarca create?
How many types of temperaments did Hippocrates distinguish?
On which continent is Sudan located?
What were the names of the half-human, half-horse people living in the forests of Thessaly?
Please complete: "Grandfather spoke to the image, and the image..."?
What is the name of the mine in Katowice, Poland, where 9 miners were killed during a strike in December 1981?
Who commanded the Polish army at the Battle of Olszynka Grochowska?
In which book Niccolò Machiavelli included the words: "The end justifies the means"?
According to Polish law, can a person who is 70 years of age or older obtain unemployment status?
What was the name of Louis XVI's wife, beheaded during the French Revolution?
At which lake does the Mice Tower stand?
Which insects transmit yellow fever?
Which Polish woman was the first to conquer the Crown of the Earth?
What colors are on the flag of Monaco?
What does ichnology study?
What year does Sienkiewicz write about in "With Fire and Sword" that "it was a strange year"?
In what century did English writer Charles Dickens live?
What is the name of the passive, non-contractile part of the muscle that attaches it to the bone?
How many stars are on the US flag?
Abak in ancient Greece is a type of what?
What was the name of the Swiss hero Tell?
To whom, according to the proverb, does the devil sway the children?
Which ocean has the largest surface area?
The wife of which Polish king from 1402 was Anna of Cilicia?
What is the name of the philosophical direction in which experience is most important?
What do we call a simple diagnostic instrument for auscultating a patient in medicine?
What is the name of the highest peak in the Silesian Beskid?
What goes along with the promise?
What is someone born into who is exceptionally lucky?
Where was the first seat of the Grand Master of the Templar order located?
What color is the maple leaf that marks a novice driver?
What currency is used in Spain?
Did Buffalo Bill, the legendary hero of the Wild West, really exist?
Laudation can be minted or delivered
What is the name of the Polish footballer who scored 4 goals in one Champions League game?
Who was the court physician of Stefan Batory and Sigismund III Vasa?
Is a pamphlet a praise or mockery piece?
In which country did the commedia dell'arte type of stage show originate?
In which city did Frederic Chopin's last public concert take place on November 16, 1848?
What do we call the war that ended with the Peace of Torun in 1466?
In what century was serfdom abolished in Russia?
In what month of 1945 did General Leopold Okulicki give the order to disband the Home Army?
From which dynasty did Conrad of Mazovia come?
Who traded the hatchet for a stick?
Are harpsichord and clavichord the same thing?
How many seconds is one angular degree?
What is the chemical symbol for silicon?
Which artist performed the song "Time like a river"?
What is the name of the canopy chair carried by the porters?
What sport does Miroslav Klose play?
What is the name of the general bar association?
What is the square root of 64?
What did the character played by Dustin Hoffman in "Rain Man" suffer from?
Do tapirs have trumpets?
The figure of which Greek god is represented by a statue on London's Piccadilly Circus?
Which country's flag is Freedom holding in Eugène Delacroix's painting?
From which place on Earth do all roads lead north?
What is the name of the Philistine city where Samson was killed?
In which city in 1993 was the treaty establishing the European Union signed?
What were the names of the segregated areas for the black population in South Africa?
Which city is the capital of Scotland?
In which of Słowacki's dramas does Dafnicki appear?
What does verte literally mean?
What was the name of Othello's wife?
What is the name of the room under the floor of the church where the dead were buried?
In what century did Franz Schubert create?
Which country was the first visited by Tom Wilmowski, the hero of a series of books written by Alfred Szklarski?
What is the name of the tape used to ride a horse on a wheel?
In which country from 1938 to 1991 was the title of Hero of Socialist Labor awarded?
Is Chile a predominantly mountainous or lowland country?
Kapism is a direction in which field of Polish art?
In which German city does the Cecilienhof Palace stand?
Do the AV node and SA occur in the brain or heart?
What was the name of the female prime minister of Israel?
What is the title of Moniuszko's opera in which a poor highland girl falls in love with a nobleman?
Was the Olympic stadium in Wroclaw built before or after World War II?
How many performers does the sextet consist of?
What is the name of the craftsman who covers furniture with fabric?
Anatolia is the Asian part of which country?
Which Roman ruler introduced the Julian calendar?
In a nest in which tree was the nightingale lady waiting for her late husband in Julian Tuwim's poem?
What is the intermediate voice between tenor and bass?
Who is the author of the saying "Homo sum et nihil humanum a me alienum esse puto"?
Part of which continent is the Chukotka Peninsula?
Convergence is similarity or opposite?
What was the name of the first president of the Palestinian Authority?
According to Greek mythology, how many monstrous sisters called Gorgons were there?
In which province are the districts of Grójec, Radom?
What does the Latin phrase "contram naturae" mean?
What did the letter T lose according to the poem "Abecadło"?
What is the name of the liberator of South America from Spanish sovereignty?
Is Albania located on the Balkan peninsula?
In French, what is the name of the show in honor of which actor?
What is the name of the melody played by the mechanism in clocks?
Is a sonata an instrumental or vocal piece?
What is the name of the winged horse, a symbol of poetic inspiration?
In which state is Alcatraz located?
In what century did Mendeleev publish the periodic table of elements?
Did Paul Gauguin know Vincent van Gogh?
What religious congregation did Father John Bosco found in 1859?
"One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich" by Alexander Solzhenitsyn describes what place?
What was the name of the writer and traveler, author of the novels "Canada Smells of Resin" and "Fish Sing in Ukajala"?
What country is composer Jaromír Nohavica from?
The head of which European country is Queen Margrethe II?
Did Nicolaus Copernicus study medicine?
What is the name of one of the hills in Rome where the seat of the President of the Republic is located?
What is the name of the ethnic group living in the Prut and Cheremosh area?
Among the Celts, what were the names of those who served as priests, diviners doctors?
What color are the snowdrop flowers?
How many fingers does a bear's paw have?
Rodło the symbol of Poles in Germany contains the outline of which Polish river?
In which country was the so-called terracotta army created?
Is Piaf a real name or a pseudonym for the famous singer?
Through which capital city does the Potomac River flow?
What did Cain do for a living?
Where, according to the proverb, should you not put your fingers?
What was the name of the 1807 document regulating the system of the Duchy of Warsaw?
What is the name of Japan's largest island?
In which city is the headquarters of the European Space Agency located?
Which animal was tamed and then given to John III Sobieski by Jan Chryzostom Pasek?
Who is the author of "Midsummer's Song about Sobotka"?
Which Polish destroyer was sunk during the Battle of Narvik?
The words "retinue", "dobosz" - come from which language?
What was the name of the Polish field hetman, commander at the battles of Trzciana and Hamersztyn?
Can it be supervisory, pedagogical, or factory?
Someone who changes his views frequently, changes them like...?
Which Polish writer and philosopher is the author of the book "Mini-lectures on maxi-issues"?
What was the name of Mr. Volodyjowski's friend who died with him in the rubble of Kamieniec castle?
Sayings and proverbs: what stings?
Combinatorics is the field of which science?
What is the name of the narrow strip of land at Maliakos Bay where the Greeks suffered defeat with the Persians?
How many times did Wincenty Witos hold the office of prime minister?
Is there an animal named basilisk in nature?
Is the Dalai Lama XIV a Nobel Prize winner?
In Hinduism, what is the name of the wife of Vishnu, the goddess of happiness, mother of Kama?
In which ocean are the Japanese islands located?
Who on the homestead is equal to the governor according to the proverb?
Who, according to a teacher in one of Gombrowicz's works, "the great poet was"?
Is the jackal bigger than the wolf?
Which means of payment came into existence earlier: coins or banknotes?
What is the name of Polish jazzman Stanko?
On which continent is The Gambia located?
In March, the polar night begins at which pole?
From which island did Icarus flee on his wings?
What is the name of the largest animal in the seal family?
What day is International Women's Day celebrated?
What is the official language in Ecuador?
Work on what film was not completed by Andrzej Munk due to his death?
What does speleology do?
What is the name of the view according to which man is the center of the universe?
Which composer is called the "Chopin of the North"?
Nikos Kazandzakis is the author of a novel that has been filmed and the movie has won three Academy Awards. What is its title?
Who wrote the novel "Children of Arbat"?
Is the NHL a professional field hockey or basketball league?
What is Latin for forced seclusion of political opponents?
What is the name of the teddy bear with the flapping ears from the popular bedtime show?
Which country was divided along the 17th parallel at the Geneva Conference in 1954?
What was the name of the Polish cardiac surgeon, Professor Religa?
Are there countries outside the EU where the euro has been introduced?
What is the name of the branch of astronomy that deals with the study of the Moon's surface?
What, according to the saying, did the turnip cling to?
Logorea is wordiness or silence?
Is it possible to draw a square and a circle with the same area using a compass and a ruler?
From which country does Roquefort cheese originate?
What color are the almonds that symbolize dreams?
The letters of St. Paul, St. Peter are found in the Old or New Testament?
What is the name of the device in the camera that dispenses the access time of light to the light-sensitive element?
Where does the merry-go-round spin in Maria Koterbska's song?
In what language do we say "Achtung" (i.e., "attention")?
How many penalty points can a driver who overtakes at a pedestrian crossing receive?
What flavor does wormwood infusion have?
Which letter in the Greek alphabet is omega?
How many altars does the procession lead to on Corpus Christi Day?
Cambrian, Ordovician, Silurian, Devonian, Carboniferous, and Permian - these are the periods of which era?
Please list the first degree of the adjective variety.
What is the name of the form of organization of society in which women predominate?
In which coastal city can we walk along the Long Market?
In which European country besides Russia is the ruble the currency?
What is the name of the duel between the winners of the quarterfinals?
What was the three-letter abbreviation for Soviet fighter planes?
On which day of the week does Corpus Christi fall in the Catholic Church?
The anthem of which country begins with the words: "Forward, children of the motherland"?
The temporary capital of which Asian country was Nanjing in the 20th century?
What was the name of Tom Sawyer's friend?
What is the name of the traditional dress of the Scottish Highlanders, a short plaid skirt?
The wife of which king was Marie Kazimiera d'Arquien, known as Marysieńka?
What is the name of the capital of Germany?
From which country does fashion dictator Christian Dior hail?
What do sailors call the wind that blows obliquely off the bow of a ship?
What is the name of the Indian boat with a wood frame, covered with birch bark, the prototype of the canoe?
How many perpendiculars does an acute-angled triangle have?
Who played the lead role in The Witcher movie based on Sapkowski's book?
What nationality was Charles May?
On a multi-masted sailing ship, the foresail is the mast at the front, middle or back of the ship?
What is the name of the hero of English legends, the protector of the poor hiding in the Yorkshire woods?
How many lakes does the Great American Lakes system have?
How many syllables does the Japanese poetic form Haiku consist of: 11, 15 or 17?
Which dynasty reigned in China from the 14th to the 17th century?
If we have 11 pairs of socks, how many total socks do we have?
Which country was Edmund Hillary, the first conqueror of Mount Everest, from?
In which Sudetic mountains can you climb Szczeliniec Wielki?
Are toads protected in Poland?
What is the name of the branch of medicine that deals with immunity?
The fleet of which country defeated the so-called "Great Armada" in the 16th century?
What is the name of the game of picking individual sticks from a disorderly pile so as not to move others?
What was the name of the last king of the Piast dynasty?
What is the name of the place in court where defendants sit?
What is the name of the roster of court cases held on the same day after each other?
What living organisms does lichenology deal with?
Is the kestrel a bird of prey?
Please provide the plural complement of the word kobza?
What is the name of a domino dice containing no dots, with a blank field?
What is the name of the oldest Polish theater still operating today?
What was the name of the creator of the character Mr. Blob?
Warsaw's Praga district lies on the left or right bank of the Vistula River?
On what lake is Lausanne located?
In which of Mrożek's dramas do XX and AA appear?
Does a vegetarian eat meat?
Brooklyn is a borough of which American city?
Pablo Picasso or Vincent van Gogh - which one was born in Spain?
What is the name of the country in northern Africa that has Tripoli as its capital?
What, according to the proverb, can't a crow beat a raven?
What is the name of Russian President Putin?
A professor at which university was Isaac Newton?
On which continent do two mountain ranges named after John Czersky rise?
What does the codename of the German action "Nacht und Nebel" mean in Polish?
On which continent do the Hutu peoples live?
From which country does the strong brandy Metaxa originate?
Is Latin an official language in the Vatican?
In what year did Croatia join the European Union?
What train can you get on in Maryla Rodowicz's song titled. "Remedy?"
Is lactose a simple sugar?
Are there any buffalo still alive today?
What is the name of the saddle volleying of a galloping horse practiced at a show?
The tricorn, the cloche, the fedora - these cover which part of the body?
Which traveler in the 15th century discovered a sea route to India?
Did Boccaccio have a chance encounter with Francesco Petrarca?
Do nightingales fly away from Poland for the winter?
In which European country is the Order of Gediminas awarded?
What was the name of the English king nicknamed Lionheart?
Who was the originator of chemical vocabulary in Poland?
What is the name of the back of the ship?
One ruble - how many kopecks is that?
What is the name of the customary law according to which a widow must marry the brother of the deceased?
Do you need eggs to bake sponge cakes?
How many zeros does a billion have?
Where do these places occur: Ocean of Storms, Sea of Moisture, Sea of Tranquility, Sea of Clouds?
Are cuckoos protected year-round in Poland?
What is the Greek name for bronchial thrush?
What does the Latin saying "amor vincit omnia" mean?
In which century did the Second Vatican Council take place?
What is the name of the rock group formed in 1981 by Jan Borysewicz?
What used to be the name of a lady's notebook for determining the order of dances and partners at a ball?
What nationality was Celsius?
During which war is the action of "The Adventures of the Good Soldier Swejk" set?
What was the name of Jacek Kuroń's son?
How many witches predicted Macbeth's fate?
From the name of a geometric figure, what do we call a power with exponent 2?
Are malaria and yellow fever names for the same disease?
Which city hosts the festival at which the Golden Shells are presented?
What is spaced running called in athletics?
Does the population of the Falklands exceed 200,000?
In what century was one of science's most important books On the Origin of Species by Charles Darwin published?
What is the official language in Iceland?
Small dumplings stuffed with chopped meat, served with broth, popular in Lithuania are...?
Which country did painter Francisco Goya come from?
According to the title, how many incarnations did John Piszczyk have?
In what year did the bloody pacification at the Wujek mine take place?
Did Niccolò Paganini give concerts in Poland?
What is the Greek name for the sudden, uncontrollable fear of a larger number of people?
A favorite is the variety of which fruit?
In which city is the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea located?
Which zodiac sign bears the same name as the measuring device?
In which country did Ashoka rule?
What is the name of the Krakow hill with the Dragon's Den and the Royal Castle?
Whose wife in Reymont's "Peasants" was Jagna?
Which Italian university did both Kochanowski and Copernicus study at?
Do ibises, storks and herons belong to the same family?
Through which sea did Moses lead the Israelites?
How many oceans surround Antarctica?
Which river is Częstochowa located on?
What was the name of the Blessed Virgin Mary's father?
What part of speech is: "yesterday", "tomorrow", "loudly"?
Does the Halal cause the temperature to rise or fall?
Where is the Harbour Bridge located?
What is the Polish name for malaria?
What are billiard balls called?
What is the name of the band that Jacek and Andrew Zielinski founded in 1965?
What were the underground cemeteries in ancient Rome called?
Is Proxima centauri a star or a planet?
What is the name of a sweet, strong wine from the Douro River Valley in Portugal?
Is Poland a member of the World Trade Organization?
Is the Republic's flag day a public holiday?
What was the name of the author of the words: "Peaceful village, merry village! Which voice to your glory will manage?"?
The capital of which country is Copenhagen?
Which female mountaineer was the first European to climb Mount Everest?
What animal is the symbol of the Tatra National Park?
Is the ladybug (God cow) herbivorous or is it a predator?
Who was the leader of ancient Rome's largest slave uprising?
The prime ministers of which country were Neville Chamberlain and Harold Wilson?
Which city in the U.S. is home to Columbia University, one of the oldest in the U.S.?
Does Ethiopia have access to the sea?
In which discipline is the Roland Garros Tournament held?
How many trumpets brought down the walls of Jericho?
What day do we celebrate National Education Day?
Which endocrine gland secretes thyroxine?
To give someone something that he or she cannot appreciate is, according to the proverb, to "cast pearls before..."?
Which insects produce propolis?
Which character of Ernest Hemingway uttered the words: "A man can be destroyed, but not defeated"?
Which city was Casanova from?
Was Henry VIII also king of Ireland?
What is the name of the short spatula used in the military?
What does "sayonara" mean in Japanese?
On the territory of which country is the Knyszynska Forest located?
Did Lech Walesa receive the Nobel Prize in person?
What is the colloquial name for the classical style in swimming?
Has a woman ever sat alone on the throne of Poland?
At what age was Walt Disney born?
Please complete: "What Johnny doesn't learn, that John..."?
What is the name of Adam Mickiewicz's youthful love?
In what century did the Battle of Acacia take place?
How many Budrys were featured in Adam Mickiewicz's ballad?
In what year did the so-called Pinczow republic exist?
Does Hungary have the Carpathian Mountains in its territory?
Were women allowed to sit on the throne of Egypt?
The plot of which Shakespeare drama is set in Kronborg Castle?
What part of speech answers the question "what does"?
What nationality was Marcel Proust?
What does "vademecum" literally mean in Latin?
Are daisies protected in Poland?
Who discovered sunspots in the 17th century?
What was the name of the Polish pharmacist who developed the kerosene lamp?
Please give the abbreviation of the French international soccer federation?
Does the truffle fruiting body grow underground?
Please provide the name of the actor who created the creation of Nikodem Dyzma, Stanislav Angel?
In which city is the Field Cathedral of the Polish Army located?
What are the names of the members of the order founded in 1155 on Mount Carmel?
In which city is the Malta theater festival held?
Is the anaconda a strangler?
The content of which opera by Giuseppe Verdi is the fate of Jews seeking to break out of Babylonian captivity?
Under what circumstances does one make a true friend?
Do crampons have a spine?
In what century did the Byzantine Empire fall?
Which figures of one color make up the marias in the card game?
Who was the author of the polychrome in Turek?
What does the lazy man sit on in Jan Brzechwa's poem?
What is the mating period of fish called?
The image of which president appears on the Purple Heart military decoration?
What was the name of Jane Fonda's father?
On which river does Lowicz lie?
What is the name of the section of history dealing with seals?
In which national park is the Prądnik Valley located?
What is the Greek name for the exposed part of the stage in front of the curtain?
What is the name of the portrait made by the artist himself?
Does the kinetic energy of a body in motion depend on its mass?
Is the shroud on a sailing ship one of the rear masts?
What is the name of the surgical thread made of sheep intestine?
Is Thailand an island?
In which country did Polish archaeologists discover a tomb of the Wari civilization in 2013?
What is the name of highly ionized air in which the number of free electrons is equal to the number of cations?
What is the name of the candle holder designed for one candle, the word comes from German?
What inclination did the dentist have in the title of Maryla Rodowicz's song?
What is thrown at the feet of the person we want to make something difficult?
Which of Sigismund the Old's wives was Queen Bona?
What is the name of the inn from Adam Mickiewicz's ballad "Pani Twardowska"?
Do birds called snipe live in Poland?
Which tree represents the roots of man?
Which city did a naked Archimedes run around shouting "Eureka"?
Aaron, the first high priest was the older brother of which prophet?
In what year did Hitler carry out the Anschluss of Austria?
In what year was the Alfred Nobel Foundation established?
Which character in "With Fire and Sword" had a habit of saying "listen hadko"?
In which Polish city was the Swietokrzyski Bridge built?
Are hornets a type of large wasps or large bees?
Is Switzerland a member of the North Atlantic Pact?
How many male voices were matched by the voice of Stentor from the Iliad?
Kugel is one of the traditional dishes of Jewish cuisine, is this dish prepared by a kugler?
What is the name of a rubber bag filled with hot water used to locally heat the body?
In which city does Wanda's mound rise?
What is the French name for the opening of an exhibition combined with a meeting with the author?
To which of the basic genres of drama does "Odprawa posłów greckich" belong?
What does the saying bake cancer mean?
Are there streetcars running around Szczecin?
The spouse of which prime minister was Nina Andrycz?
How many zeros does one million contain in decimal notation?
How many strings does the hammer in a piano hit at the lowest notes?
In which city do the Petronas Towers rise?
Who is the author of the Monument to the Insurgent Deed on Mount St. Anne?
What is the French name for a merchant who deals in paintings, works of art?
Who is the author of the fairy tale "Hansel and Gretel"?
What was Faraday's name?
"Man - God's plaything", from the work of which writer this quote comes from?
In the run for how many meters did Stanislava Walasiewiczówna win a medal in Los Angeles?
At the bottom of which sea did Poseidon live?
Which canal connects the Mediterranean Sea and the Red Sea?
After which World War was the Central Statistical Office established in Poland?
Can turquoise be found in Poland?
In the waters of which river did John the Baptist baptize Christ?
Did Pablo Picasso ever visit Poland?
Do a brilliant and a diamond have the same chemical composition?
By Australia lies the island of Zealand or New Zealand?
LPG is a mixture of which two gases?
Did the quadriga coachman drive while standing or sitting?
Which Polish composer is considered the creator of national opera?
In which religion is the holy book the Tipitaka?
In which city was the One WTC skyscraper built?
In which century did the Polish-Swedish war known as the Deluge take place?
What was the name of the heroine of Pan Wolodyjowski, whom Zagloba called a hajduk?
What kind of animal is Stuart Tiny, the hero of the book and several movies?
Figures from which game did Alice see on the other side of the mirror?
Did Zygmunt Gloger, author of the "Old Polish Encyclopedia," ethnographer and sightseer, live in the 20th century?
In which national park is Snow Mountain located?
What mountains dominate Chile's landscape?
For how many days can the president impose a state of emergency in Poland?
Where in the U.S. did Robert Kennedy die in the assassination?
The chancellor of which country was Willy Brandt?
What is the name of the flag indicating the nationality of the ship?
Does the Catholic Church allow cremation?
Is Mikołaj Kossak the father or grandfather of Maria Pawlikowska-Jasnorzewska?
Which Polish king listened to Skarga's sermons?
Is acetylene a noble gas?
In what year did the Battle of Trafalgar take place?
In which country is Kilimanjaro located?
What color were the uniforms worn by the Polish Army in France under General Haller?
What is the plant's ability to turn toward light called?
The capital of which country is Luanda?
Lech Walesa, speaking in the US Congress in 1989, began his speech with the words: "We, the nation." To the text of which document was he referring?
In which country on the North Sea coast is the city of Arnhem located?
How many years did Benedict XVI's pontificate last?
What French word do we use to describe the rules of proper behavior in company?
Which Roman emperor was to appoint his horse as a senator?
What was the name of the Caruso singer?
The Two Shores Film Festival takes place simultaneously in two towns on two banks of the Vistula River. One of them is Janowiec, and the other?
Under what pseudonym did Krzysztof Trzcinski perform?
Are blintzes dumplings or pancakes?
In what century was the Mohs scale, used to determine the hardness of minerals, developed?
What was the name of Pollux's twin brother?
What is the name of the Orthodox temple?
Who is the author of the historical poem "Grażyna"?
Who recorded for posterity the legend of Wanda, who did not want a German?
What is the name of Franz Lehar's Merry Widow of the title?
Which state is New England located in?
To which dynasty does Spain's ruling Juan Carlos belong?
On the tombstone of which writer buried in the Powązki cemetery is the inscription: "heart of hearts"?
One decagram how many grams is that?
What is the name of the largest island in the Baltic Sea?
What was the name of the title maiden, whose madness was described by Kornel Makuszyński?
On how many islands is Venice located - about 50 or on more than a hundred?
Which country's fleet clashed with the Japanese fleet during the Battle of Tsushima in 1905?
What was the name of the absentminded gentleman looking for his glasses in Julian Tuwim's poem?
In which province is Słupsk located?
What is the name of the branch of geometry devoted to the study of spatial figures?
What does the Latin phrase "mea culpa" mean in Polish?
Is cannelloni Italian pasta or pizza?
Which city was the capital of the General Government?
What mountains are the summit of Broad Peak located in?
What was the title of the erotic thriller starring Michael Douglas and Sharon Stone?
What was the name of the figure gifted by Zeus with the tin containing all misfortunes?
What was the name of the American baseball player, Marilyn Monroe's husband?
Did Stefan Żeromski receive the Nobel Prize for literature?
What is the name of the author of the program "Case for a reporter"?
Who wrote the children's song "Locomotive"?
What do we call a musical ensemble of five instrumentalists?
To see... and die - which city is it about?
Anchovies is the French term for a dish made from fish, snails or frogs' legs?
An English scout is...?
In what country did Catherine of Medici reign?
How many cannons did the Ordon redoubt have in Adam Mickiewicz's poem?
The president of which country was Perón?
Who is the author of the painting "The Last Judgment" located in Gdansk?
What is the name of the smallest of Japan's four main islands?
Please provide the date of the capture of the Bastille.
The workshop of which Greek god was supposed to be located in the Etna volcano?
In which wilderness is the January Uprising Memorial Forest located?
Did actor Leonardo DiCaprio play the role of Romeo?
Who was Nostradamus by profession?
What is the collective numeral of the number 9?
What is the name of the main character of "Chronicle of Love Accidents"?
What is the name of the geometric transformation in which the distance between each pair of points does not change?
What is the name of the headgear of lawyers, clergymen and professors?
Are alkanes and paraffins the same thing?
What is the name of a motorcycle race held in difficult terrain?
What is the name of the smallest Roman military unit, which originally numbered 100 soldiers?
What does the word fracas mean?
Who played the title role in the movie "Zorba the Greek"?
What is the name of the element with the symbol Am?
Which Polish national park is the oldest?
What is the Latin term for a holy place?
The Forrester family are characters in which series?
Is Polish Humanitarian Action a governmental or non-governmental organization?
What is the name of the Częstochowa hill on which the Pauline monastery stands?
In what year did the last space shuttle mission take place?
Is the Hajduk an outer garment from Kashubia or an old Polish dance?
What was the name of Leszek the White's son nicknamed Shy?
On which license plate are the numbers on the yellow background: regular, antique or temporary?
What gas was the Hindenburg airship filled with during the famous crash?
Which work by Adam Mickiewicz opens with a motto taken from Niccolò Machiavelli's "The Prince"?
What's the buzz in the Boy Scout song "Campfire in the Woods"?
Is leprosy a disease transmitted by bacteria or viruses?
What was the name of the author of a collection of fairy tales in 12 volumes published in the 17th century?
What bay does the Vistula River drain into?
In the square whose name is the Arc de Triomphe located in Paris?
Which islands are Russia and Japan competing for?
A dish of raw vegetables, unbleached linen cloth, an iron-carbon alloy - this...?
Part of which country is the province of Quebec?
Can a snake swim?
What was the name of the hen that laid golden eggs?
What was the name of the yacht on which Teliga circumnavigated the world?
What is the name for entering into a new marriage during the course of a previous marriage?
What was the name of the former unit of measurement of an adult's arm's reach?
Is the European Court of Auditors an EU court?
How old was the painter Wladyslaw Podkowiński, author of "Frenzy of Exultation"?
What is the name of the largest snail in Poland?
Which prince according to the chronicle of Gallus Anonymus was eaten by mice?
Which America (North or South) has more population?
Goldap is located on the border with which country?
Are beatification and canonization the same thing?
According to the saying, we fold our hands into a clamshell. And what do we fold into a clamshell?
Where is Raskolnikov sent after his confession?
Which civil war did Ernest Hemingway participate in?
What is the name of the curve described by a fixed point of a circle rolling without slippage outside another stationary circle?
How many eyes did Cyclops have?
What, in French, is the name of a road barrier built during street fighting?
What is the name of the beer plant?
Where did the first screening of the Lumière brothers' film take place?
From which country does the martial art of kung-fu originate?
111 or 112 - which of these numbers is divisible by 3?
In what year did John III Sobieski achieve victory at Vienna?
In what century was the treaty of the three black eagles concluded?
Do you use chopsticks when playing the marimba?
What was the name of the vault in "Tales of a Thousand and One Nights", which required a password to open?
How many terms did George W. Bush serve as president?
Which gas conducts heat best?
Which animal do we refer to as a coffin?
At which congress was the Free City of Krakow, or the Republic of Krakow, established?
Can professional athletes compete in the Olympic Games?
How many kilograms does a liter of pure water weigh?
What is the name of the Polish general who commanded the Hungarian insurgent army in 1848-49?
About someone seemingly strong but failing at a crucial moment, a Chinese proverb says, what kind of tiger?
Is the ludo shark a tiger or a shark?
What was the name of the Polish writer Nalkowska?
What is the name of a quartet composed of a cello, viola and two violins?
From which country does Parmesan cheese originate?
In which ocean is the island of Mauritius located?
Do axioms require proof?
What is the name of the drama in which one of the characters is Brabantio?
How many trips did Gulliver, the protagonist of Jonathan Swift's novel, take?
Who is the author of "Romanticism" - the manifesto of Romanticism in Poland?
Was parchment made from animal skins or from plants?
What is the name of the actor who played the role of Bond in the last three films?
What animals saved Rome during the Gallic invasion in 390 BC?
Who is the author of the novella "Nasza szkapa"?
What is the name of a small wild sheep?
What does the protagonist of Franz Kafka's short story titled "The Transformation" turn into? "Transformation?"
How much does the men's discus weigh in athletic competition?
In which country do the springs of the Danube River beat?
How many crosses does the monument to shipyard workers killed in 1970 consist of?
In which field in 1919 did Woodrow Wilson receive the Nobel Prize?
What is the name of the fundamental law that establishes the basis of the political system?
Which city hosted the 1924 Olympic Games, where the Polish team officially debuted?
In what century were the statutes of Casimir the Great written?
From which century did the official name of the Russian Empire begin to be used?
In the Middle Ages, how were students or pupils at cathedral schools referred to?
What color was the Lancaster crest rose?
Whose face was Stańczyk wearing in Jan Matejko's painting?
Which country is Leonard Cohen from?
How many people make up the basic crew of an aircraft called a drone?
What was the name of the maiden with whom the bass player from the song "We are on vacation" by Wojciech Mlynarski fell in love?
In which country are the Bakon Forest mountains located?
Jaggery, couscous, puff - types of what?
Is magnetite an iron or magnesium ore?
What were the names of the Lumière Brothers?
What was the name of the goose from the TV bedtime show who was friends with Puff?
Is the gnomon a sundial or a spirit looking after the mines?
In the delta of which river was the Rosetta stone found in 1799?
What number was designated by the Romans as XL?
In what century did Mozart live?
What brand was the first mass-produced car in the US?
What is the name of Earth's only natural satellite?
What was the name of the wife of the USSR's only president?
In which sport is Jaroslaw Hampel successful?
On which tree do acorns grow?
In which city in the United States was the United Nations Charter signed?
What discipline do Stefan Hula and Maciej Kot practice?
What was the name of the state established by the Crusaders in Palestine and Syria?
Is lead needed to make pencils?
Does China border India?
Polesie is a plain located on the territory of three countries. In addition to Poland and Ukraine - which one else?
Which saint was declared the patron saint of environmentalists by Pope John Paul II in 1979?
In which city did Drakon exercise power in ancient times?
Was Alexander Gierymski's brother Nikolai a painter?
Pumpernickel is a type of what kind of bread?
The Persian Gulf is part of which ocean?
Which Polish king reorganized the Cracow Academy at the end of the 14th century?
What is the name of the unit of mass used in gemstone trading?
From which side of the world did the three kings come?
How many Parekas, goddesses of destiny, were there?
In what year did the so-called Black Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange take place?
Which character in "Lalka," the author of the diary, took part in the Hungarian Revolution of 1848?
How many daughters did Zeus have with the goddess of memory Mnemosyne?
What do we call the physical quantity that describes the place occupied by a body in space?
In what year did the Battle of Narvik take place?
What is the name of the city park that surrounds the oldest part of Krakow?
What nationality was Thomas Edison?
In which European country was a woman the first to become president?
Who was Tadeusz Kotarbinski by profession?
Is the alto sung only by women?
In which country did the Velvet Revolution take place?
Which Hun leader was called the Scourge of God?
Who is the composer of the opera "Madame Butterfly"?
What was the name of the first balloon constructed by the Montgolfier brothers?
What is the international abbreviation for east on maps?
At what latitude is the equator located?
Is the Wislok River a tributary of the Vistula?
In which America do the Cascade Mountains rise?
What is the name of the chemical element whose name sounds the same as that of the gentleman burglar Lupin?
In which country are the towns of Katyn and Mednoye located?
What is the name of the cave in France where Neolithic paintings were discovered on the walls in 1940?
What vine is Cassis wine made from?
In what century did van Gogh live?
In which ocean are the islands of Bora-Bora located?
Which Greek god took care of travelers and found things?
Where did Romuald Traugutt die?
Who do Muslims refer to as giaours?
A mastectomy is the removal of which part of the body?
What affinity do Krystyna Janda and Maria Seweryn share?
What was the name of the Paris residence that was the residence of the party of the Great Emigration centered around Adam Czartoryski?
In which former Soviet republic was Anna German born?
In which city is Muhammad's tomb located?
Silesia is the Latin name of which region of Poland?
What was the name of the island near which the Japanese fleet wrecked the Russian fleet in 1905?
What Indian tribe did Unkas, the protagonist of Cooper's book, come from?
Does Poland belong to the G8?
What is the name of the town where the hospital in the TV series "For Better or Worse" is located?
Which muse held no attribute in her hand?
What is the name of the main character of "House on the Spillway"?
What nationality was Christian Andersen?
Who, according to the proverb, is bothered by the hem of his skirt?
What professional group is controlled during hospitalization?
What is the name of Romania's capital?
In which circle of hell are Ovid and Horace located according to Dante?
What does a no-parking sign with a white Roman numeral one mean?
Who by profession was Herostrates, who set fire to the temple of Artemis in Ephesus?
The heroine of which work by Maria Konopnicka is Marysia Kukulanka, the goose girl?
Which composer, a cantor at St. Thomas Church in Leipzig, was the author of the 6 Brandenburg Concertos?
In what year was the March Constitution passed?
Is the pistil a male or female reproductive organ?
What is the name of a sorrowful Ukrainian folk song?
In which country do the so-called Colossi of Memnon stand?
What is the name of a supporter of royal power?
In which country was the first highway built?
Is CNN an American or British television station?
This Nantes-born French writer, born in the 19th century, is considered a forerunner of science fiction literature. Who is it about?
In what year was Poland admitted to NATO?
During which ceremony in Rome the words were uttered: "where you Gaius, there I Gaia"?
In which city did "The Globe" theater operate?
Which country is director Pedro Almodóvar from?
What is the French name for the person announcing the concerts?
In which city is the Silesian Wyspianski Theater located?
In which province is Kartuzy located?
Is Cape Acacia located in Africa or Europe?
How many walls does the cuboid have?
What is the name of the trigonometric function, the ratio of the length of the adjacent perpendicular to the length of the opposite perpendicular?
Around which city is the action of the Iliad centered?
In which Polish city is Przekrój published?
Was John III Vasa the king of Poland?
What is the name of the science that studies crime as a social phenomenon?
Which is bigger: the area of New York's Central Park or the principality of Monaco?
In which Dutch city can you visit the van Gogh museum and Rembrandt's house?
In which city was a criminal group called the Camorra founded?
In what century did Emperor Henry IV travel to Canossa?
In which European city is the d'Orsay museum located?
Did Alexander of Macedon and Aristotle ever meet?
Part of which city is the Majdanek district?
In which country is the series "Allo, allo" set?
What sport is called the queen of sports?
Who commanded the Polish army in the campaign against Austria in 1809?
How many years before Orwell's book with the same title was published in 1984?
In which city is the stage of the Silesian Opera located?
In which country was Moses born?
What is the name of the white stiff cardboard; named after a town in England?
What country does the South Sporades archipelago belong to?
Does baker's yeast contain dead or live fungi?
In what century did Pakistan proclaim independence?
What was the name of the Greek muse, the protector of history?
On which river is Gorzow Wielkopolski located?
Is caracena a weapon or armor?
The name of which Polish general appears in the Polish anthem?
How many lions are in the emblem of Denmark?
Do the laufer and the chaser move in the same way?
What pace is defined by the word largo?
Did Frederic Chopin compose waltzes?
Which hand is saluted in the Polish army?
Whose name is the Warsaw Theater Academy named after?
What is the English name for a short circuit in boxing?
Part of which mountain chain are the Owl Mountains?
What kind of animal was the main character of the cartoon "Where's Nemo"?
Did St. Peter have a wife?
What is the name of the ninth month of the Muslim lunar calendar in which fasting is obligatory?
On which ocean are the Falkland Islands located?
In what year did Christopher Columbus discover America?
On which river are Bratislava, Belgrade and Budapest located?
Who is Mashtalski, the hero of the jokes - a Silesian, a Mazurian or a Kashubian?
Do tigers live in the Siberian taiga?
Pacemaker, stent - are they endo- or exoprostheses?
In which Polish city is the district of Mościce located?
Which element is most abundant in the universe?
From which country did the fandango dance originate?
What is the name of the rock temple complex in Egypt relocated before Lake Nasser flooded?
What does the Latin word "pater" mean?
During the reign of which king did the incorporation of Prussia take place in 1454?
Who announced that the planets move on ellipses?
The violin competition held annually in Genoa is named after which violinist?
What's a fish in a fishless world?
The Nile is the longest river of which country?
In addition to the Union Jack, which country's flag includes the Southern Cross?
What animals pull Santa's sleigh?
Who were the German fairy tale writers Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm to each other?
What does "alma mater" literally mean?
From what metal were thirds, coins worth three denarii, minted since the 14th century?
A statue of which poet is located in Krakow's main square?
With which prominent scientist did the Pole, Leopold Infeld, collaborate?
In what century did the Civil War take place?
Which sport do Vitaliy and Wladimir Klitschko practice?
In which country is the bridge over the River Kwai located?
In what century was French scientist André-Marie Ampère born?
What is the Latin name for the surrounding ditch protecting a fortress, usually filled with water?
What was the name of the first artificial satellite placed in Earth's orbit?
Where did Casimir Pulaski die?
What is the name of a money sign made of paper?
In what year did the Battle of Midway take place?
Which city hosted the 1928 Olympic Games, where Halina Konopacka won the gold medal?
Who is the author of the "Kronos" diaries published in 2013?
What is the name of the largest depression on Earth?
What are the branches of the trachea called?
How many years is the term of office of the French president?
In what year did Stanislaw Augustus initiate Thursday dinners?
In which country did the African National Congress fight apartheid?
Is Raphael Santi's painting "Sistine Madonna" in the Sistine Chapel?
In which country did Henryk Dabrowski form the Polish Legions?
What does the Latin "inter arma silent Musae" mean?
Please provide both names of Mr. Zagloba.
What is one of the three states of matter called besides solid and liquid?
Favelas are poverty districts on which continent?
Which African country borders Algeria and Egypt?
Who was called the Primate of the Millennium?
What was the name of the party whose members met at the Convent of St. James in Paris?
Does a prenup have to be signed in the form of a notarial deed?
The beauty of which part of the face is enhanced by mascara?
What do we call a criminal who kidnaps people for ransom?
What is the title of Stanislaw Lem's book on which the film "Congress" was based?
What is the activity of removing the stumps of felled trees called?
The father-in-law of which French king was Stanislas Leszczynski?
Is a canotier a hat or a tailcoat?
Is there a vice-pope position in the Catholic Church?
Can a Member of Parliament be a Senator at the same time?
Who in Greek mythology killed Hector?
What city is the forbidden city, a former imperial district, located in?
Which American president appears on the one-dollar bill?
What is the name of the Polish traveler who named Australia's highest peak Mount Kosciuszko?
How do we write the number 70 in Roman?
What was the name of the Nazi who suppressed the Warsaw Ghetto uprising?
Pieter Bruegel the Elder had two sons. Please provide the name of one of them.
Which country is Celine Dion from?
Which country was Karen Blixen, author of the book "Farewell to Africa," from?
What was the name of the mother of Anna Jagiellonka, wife of Stefan Batory?
In what century was the element polonium discovered?
What color are daffodil flowers?
What destroyed the Colossus of Rhodes?
What does the abbreviation CMK stand for?
On which continent is the tse-tse fly found?
He lived between 1450 and 1516, and painted "Ship of Fools" and "Garden of Earthly Delights," among other works. What was his name?
"Diamonds are eternal" and "Greetings from Moscow". - Who is the main character of these novels?
What was the name of the commander of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising?
In what century did New Netherlands officially change its name to Australia?
How many novellas was the Decameron?
Please complete Ignacy Krasicki's sentence: "True virtue...".
Are alcohols organic compounds?
In what century was the cave with the Lascaux cave paintings discovered?
What is the name of the basic unit of local government in Poland?
The creator of the painting "Lady with an Ermine" is Leonardo da Vinci. And who painted the "Lady with an Ermine"?
In which city was a museum of curiosities established in 2001?
Who in the poem came to the ladybug?
What is the name of a short-distance run?
In what century did the Battle of Poitiers take place?
In what century was the Vienna Ferris wheel built?
By law, could successive elected kings in Poland have been related?
Which raw material is the Persian Gulf known for?
What occurs in the saying along with the poppy and means nothing?
Who, according to the proverb, is the king in the kingdom of the blind?
Who hasn't told a woman how to sow poppies?
Who is the patron saint of hunters?
In which city is the scene of the mob massacre in the movie "Battleship Potemkin" set?
For the cinematography of which Steven Spielberg film did Polish cinematographer Janusz Kaminski receive an Oscar in 1994?
What used to be the name of a soldier on permanent duty attached to an officer? The word comes from the French.
In what century did Chadwick discover the neutron in the atomic nucleus?
What is the name of the traditional Russian meat dumplings?
In what modern country is Artemision, a temple in honor of Artemis, located?
In old Russia, what were river workers towing barges on a rope called?
Finish the saying: "neither dog nor..."?
Are urchins algal cells or cricket legs?
In which city in 1971 did Gierek ask the workers: "Then how? Will you help?"?
What did the title character of Emil Zola's novel die of?
How many days shook the world in the title of John Reed's book about the October Revolution?
On which continent was the first National Park established?
Is Switzerland a member of the United Nations?
What was the name of the King of Prussia, the initiator of the First Partition of Poland?
Was Anna Karenina, the heroine of Leo Tolstoy's novel, married?
The virtuoso of which instrument is Nigel Kennedy?
