Which organization was created earlier: The European Coal and Steel Community or the European Atomic Energy Community?
In what century was Sigismund's bell cast?
Are adjectives conjugated by cases?
What is the Latin name for forensic evidence that consists of showing that the accused person was not at the scene of the crime when it was committed?
What is the name of the off-road Lada?
From which continent does 90% of the world's rice production come?
What are the side stripes on uniform pants called?
What was the name of the giant gorilla, the hero of Japanese films?
What is the name of the single element of the staircase and the digital assessment of the student's progress?
Which Colombian writer born in 1927 is the author of the novel "One Hundred Years of Solitude"?
Was inventor and politician Benjamin Franklin president of the United States?
The protagonist of which novel is Aramis?
Who was Achilles' best friend and a participant in the Trojan War; he died at the hands of Hector?
What is the name of the rope that attaches the ship to the wharf?
What was the name of the Polish heavyweight boxer, George Foreman's opponent at the 1968 Olympics in Mexico?
In what century is the action of "Teutonic Knights" set?
Who helped carry Jesus' cross on the way to Golgotha?
In which ballad did Adam Mickiewicz declare: "feeling and faith speak more strongly to me than a wise man's glass and eye"?
Which bird has its three days in the title of Sydney Pollack's film?
What is the name of the writer, author of "The Spectrum" and "The Deal"?
When the Soviet army entered Poland in 1939, did the sides declare war on each other?
What two foods did Jesus multiply according to the New Testament?
Which Bulgarian politician was accused of setting fire to the Reichstag?
Is the French horn a brass or woodwind instrument?
Through which country does the Ukajali River flow?
What do we call the surrender of a criminal located in the territory of a country to the authorities of that country whose laws have been violated?
What is the name of the director of the film Django?
What is the name of the basic unit of mass in the SI system?
What did English mathematician Hadley invent in 1731?
What is the name of the side wall of a boat or ship?
How many parts are currently in the Indiana Jones adventure saga with Harrison Ford?
What is it called to make amendments or additions to existing laws?
What was the name of Zenon Laskowik and Bohdan Smolen's cabaret?
Which symphony is the "Ode to Joy" from?
The area of which figure is calculated by squaring the length of its side?
Which country was called the Middle Kingdom?
A citizen of which country was the protagonist of William Shakespeare's famous drama Prince Hamlet?
Which Polish sculptor was the creator of the Frederic Chopin monument in the Lazienki Park in Warsaw?
Did Elvis Presley live to be 40?
Who elected the president according to the March Constitution?
On the territory of which two countries is Lake Titicaca located?
In which famous sea bath was Louis de Funès the gendarme?
What is the name of an ice yacht equipped with sharp skids?
How many drivers per car in the 24 Hours of Le Mans race?
What religion is the majority of Liechtenstein's population?
What is the name of the branch of geology that deals with the study of the structure and movements of the earth's crust?
Against whom was an organization called the Prussian Union founded in Kwidzyn in 1440?
What is the name of the highest peak in the Tatra Mountains?
What is the name of the newspaper that can be read on the TV screen?
Are penalty shots taken in ice hockey?
Polydactyly is a developmental defect involving an excessive number of what?
Who initiated and organized the first modern Olympic Games?
What is the name of the animal with magnificent, branching horns that lives in the Arctic and is harnessed to Santa's sleigh in the fairy tale?
According to Polish terminology, how many millions does a trillion consist of?
How many strings does a classical guitar have?
Did the cuirassiers fight on foot or on horseback?
Under natural conditions, is fluorine a gas or a liquid?
Three goddesses competed for the golden apple: Athena, Aphrodite and ...?
Were Christopher Columbus and Vasco da Gama born in the same country?
What is the name of the alkaloid used to dilate the pupil?
Mohair is a soft wool that comes from which animals?
What was the name of the large farm, which previously used the labor of serf peasants and, since the 19th century, hired labor?
What was the name of St. John the Baptist's mother?
Is the comedy "Maiden Vows" by Alexander Fredro written in prose or in verse?
What mushrooms did Wojski pick in "Pan Tadeusz"?
Which ruler brought the body of St. Adalbert to Gniezno?
What kind of peat has medicinal properties?
What do we call the crime of buying an item that comes from theft?
What was the name given to Tatar troops separated from the orda and carrying out raids into enemy territory?
Which bicycle wheel was bigger: the front or the rear?
We traveled 80 kilometers in 2 hours. At what speed did we travel?
From which country does strong port wine originate?
What is the name of the author of the novel "The Godfather"?
What does the Mercalli scale measure: wind strength or earthquake strength?
Whose name is the Lodz Philharmonic named after?
Which weapon used in sports fencing is the heaviest?
Who commanded the "Polesie" operational group, which fought the last battle of the September campaign at Kock on 6.10.1939?
What is the name of the walking boat used to transport people and goods on the canals of Venice?
What do we call the temporary deprivation of liberty of a suspect before his case is tried in court?
Wellington is the capital of which country?
On the border of how many European countries lies Lake Constance?
Was the Parthenon on the Acropolis counted among the seven wonders of the world?
Which artist is the Kraków cultural institution Cricoteka dedicated to?
Was Maria Walewska the wife of Napoleon?
What was the name of the first nuclear-powered submarine launched in the U.S. in 1954?
Was the Falcon a firearm or a white weapon?
Who wrote "The Mudbloods" and "The Persians"?
If the term of the Diet is shortened, is the term of the Senate also shortened?
In the 1930s, a building was built in New York that was for a long time the tallest in the world. What is it called?
On which great river did the state of the Pharaohs develop?
Who was the First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Polish United Workers' Party when the construction of the Katowice Steel Plant began?
Which of the great composers lost his hearing and yet still created and even sometimes performed as a conductor?
What is the name of a crime committed under the influence of strong agitation?
The word occident is one word or two words?
What is the name of the tiny grooves on the skin of the fingers, unique to each person?
Taiga is characterized by a predominance of coniferous or deciduous trees?
Which plant in the Lord Thaddeus invocation was blazing its maiden flush?
Which Polish woman won a gold and bronze medal at the Atlanta Olympics in rifle shooting?
Who was the father of Boleslaw III the Wrymouth?
What is the current name of the largest city on the east coast of North America, founded under the name of New Amsterdam?
In which province is Torun located?
In what sport did Grazyna Rabsztyn set world records?
What is the name of the box with a hole into which ballots are dropped?
What is the name of Britain's first female prime minister?
What kind of people inhabited and inhabit the White Forest?
Which animal family does the llama belong to?
In what century did Sophocles live?
Which European capital city has a Tivoli funfair?
Which color was used to name the sea that is part of the Arctic Ocean?
In which country was paper invented?
What is a morbid fear of fire called?
Does Greenpeace operate in Poland?
In what year was the production of the Fiat 126p passenger car started in Bielsko-Biala - the 1970s or the 1980s?
Which European city is home to the Real and Atletico soccer clubs?
What title, derived from the name of a miner from the Donetsk Basin, was given to a labor leader in the Soviet Union?
What is the name of the longest left tributary of the Vistula River?
Which Italian sprinter was the world record holder in the 200-meter run for many years?
Is Douglas fir a deciduous or a coniferous tree?
In which industry did Krakow-born Helena Rubinstein achieve great success - computer, film or cosmetics?
How many times has Uruguay been world soccer champion?
Were the Juvenalia held in ancient Rome?
Is the epilogue the end of the work or its introduction?
How many volumes does Wladyslaw Reymont's novel "The Peasants" consist of?
In which city stands the residence of the Presidents of the United States - the White House?
What is the common name of a military subdivision and a bird of the snipe family?
In what century did Edward Jenner invent the smallpox vaccine?
In which U.S. state are San Diego and San Francisco located?
Hypothermia is a condition of decreased or increased body temperature?
In what century did the first trial at the International Criminal Court in The Hague begin?
Where was the French fleet sunk in 1942 to prevent the Germans from taking it over?
What was the name of Gomulka, the first secretary of the PZPR?
In what year did the Nazis arrest the first Home Army Commander-in-Chief Stefan Rowecki, alias "Grot"?
What is the name of the Warsaw Stock Exchange's economic indicator?
What is the name of the Polish director of the films "Interrogation", "Closed Circuit", "General Nil"?
In which country are the Nobel literary prizes awarded each year?
From which dynasty is the current king of Spain descended?
In what century was Italy unified?
Who was the winner of the Olympic gold medal in the men's high jump in 1976 in Montreal?
What was the name of the currency in effect in the Second Republic before Grabski's reform and the introduction of the zloty?
Who is the author of the novel on which the film "The Great Gatsby" was based?
What is the name of a tall coniferous tree, in ancient Rome considered a symbol of mourning?
Is the Bessemer pear edible?
What does Claude Monet's painting "Impression" depict: sunrise or sunset?
An unattainable, unrealistic thing is pears on what?
Is the bassoon a low or high scale instrument?
Was the production of Warsaw passenger cars started before or after World War II?
What do we call the luminous wrapping around divine or holy figures in Christian art?
Is the planet Mercury larger than Earth?
What was the function of the Duke of Wellington, Napoleon's conqueror, in England in 1828-30?
Was the Wolf, a Polish warship, a submarine or a torpedo boat?
A wish that seems unreal is pious or impious?
Which city is called the City of Seven Hills?
What is the absolute value of the number -9?
What weapon - besides fire - appears in the title of the historical film with Michal Zebrowski?
In which city does the Zlote Tarasy shopping and entertainment complex operate?
In what year was the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) established?
Who wrote the satire entitled. "The Fashionable Wife?"
What did the brothers Simon and Andrew do before they became apostles?
What was the former name of the cart used to carry artillery ammunition?
In what year did the movements known as the Spring of Nations begin in Europe?
What is the name of the part of an electronic instrument used to feed or discharge charge carriers?
What is the liquid part of the blood without blood cells called?
How many pillars of faith is Islam based on?
Has the International Atomic Energy Agency been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize?
In Arabic tales, how does the spell that opens the door to the vault sound?
Does Latvia belong to NATO?
What flower did the Little Prince care for?
Who composed the music for the ballet "The Sleeping Beauty" based on Charles Perrault's fairy tale?
Who developed the Periodic Table of Elements?
Who gave his life for Franciszek Gajowniczek?
Did the so-called bench ghettos take place in high schools or universities?
What was the full name of the underground organization using the acronym WIN, formed in 1945 in Poland?
In what year was the thousandth anniversary of the Baptism of Poland?
A Martian day is shorter or longer than an Earth day?
Which city is the capital of Tunisia?
At what age was Horatio Nelson born?
Did Polish astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus have a doctorate?
What is the root of the third degree of eight?
In linguistics, what is an allusive phrase used to replace an overly drastic and blunt word called?
Which instrument is Jan Ptaszyn Wroblewski known for playing?
Are auxins the growth hormones of plants or animals?
Which is the highest French decoration established by Napoleon in 1802 that is awarded to military and civilian individuals?
What was the name of the New Zealand Himalayan who became the first man to climb the world's highest peak, Mount Everest, in 1953?
Under an agreement with which country did Poland in the 1980s start building a subway in the capital?
What was the name of the last king of Poland from the Vasa dynasty?
Which insects did Tadeusz Soplica remove from Telimena's cleavage in "Pan Tadeusz"?
What was the name of a legendary Swiss hero from the period of the struggle for independence against the Habsburgs in the 14th century?
Which instrument is musician Zbigniew Namysłowski known for playing?
Which part of the warrior's body was shielded by the helmet?
Which band created hit songs such as "Satisfaction" and "Paint it black"?
Is ammonia a liquid or a gas?
Is DNA a carrier of genetic information?
A 1:2 scale drawing means it is scaled down or enlarged?
What is the name of the currency used in Thailand?
Which very famous singer sang "Remember, it was autumn"?
The 30-foot statue of Christ on Corcovado Hill is a landmark of which city?
A very hard mineral, alumina, is an oxide of which element?
What animal is called the Toddler in "Winnie the Pooh"?
In what country lies the Somme River, famous for the battle in which tanks were first used?
Syria is counted as a Far Eastern or Middle Eastern country?
How many letters of St. Peter does the New Testament contain?
How many companions were in the title of Remarque's novel?
What does LOP stand for?
What was the name of the first pope?
Under what pseudonym does the rock music star, whose real name is Luiza Veronica Ciccone, perform?
What are the salts of nitric acid called?
What nationality was St. Teresa of the Child Jesus?
In which cemetery is Boleslaw Prus buried?
In which sport did the brothers Kazimierz and Jozef Lipieni perform?
What is the Polish name for glaucoma, an eye disease?
Is Greece a republic or a monarchy?
Who was the first, the president of Israel?
In Buddhism and Hinduism, what is the sum of a person's good deeds called that determines the nature of the next incarnation in the chain of reincarnation?
Which tsar abolished peasant serfdom in Russia?
Which Polish writer created 232 novels?
Which Polish city is a winter sports center, located at the foot of Skrzyczne and Klimczok?
Who is the author of the three laws of dynamics?
Under what name is known the Polish actress and singer, a popular star of the 1930s - Maria Anna of Pietruszyńska Tyszkiewiczowa?
What was the name of the last king of Poland from the Jagiellonian dynasty?
In which Polish mountains is the Krakow Gorge located?
Who is the author of the historical work "Poland of the Piasts"?
In what year did Lech Walesa receive the Nobel Peace Prize?
What is the expropriation to the state of basic means of production, such as factories, banks, land, called?
Was World War I won by the states gathered in the Triple Alliance or the Tri-Agreement?
Which instrument is Kaja Danczowska known for playing?
"Hamlet," "Macbeth," "King Lear" - are any of these Shakespeare plays not tragedies?
Does the Ural River flow into the Caspian Sea?
Are the Galapagos and the Turtle Islands the same island group?
The shadow of which bird appears in the title of Varius Manx's hit song?
In the Bieszczady Mountains, the borders of three countries - which ones besides Poland - converge at one point?
In 1967, Cape Town surgeon Christiaan Barnard performed a groundbreaking operation. What did it involve?
What is the name of the phenomenal Hungarian boxer who won the Olympic title three times?
The ruler of which state was Emperor Diocletian?
What is the name of a variety of brass containing up to 20% zinc (the rest is copper), with a golden color, used, among other things, to make inexpensive jewelry?
In which language did Herodotus write his "Histories"?
In which city does the Florian Gate, built in the Middle Ages, stand?
Are a noun and a verb parts of a sentence?
From which country does emmental cheese originate?
Is Shimon Peres a Nobel laureate?
How many legs does a crawfish have?
What was the name of Tadeusz Kantor's theater?
Which camel has more humps - the dromedary or the bactrian?
What is the name of the Polish director who created the films "Róża", "Drogówka" and "Dom zły"?
Who is the director of the American film "Jurassic Park"?
From which dynasty was King Louis XVI of France descended?
Please provide the date of the WTC attack.
What was the name of the most outstanding sculptor of antiquity, the author of, among other things, the statue of Athena on the Acropolis?
Was the Battle of Salamis by land or by sea?
In which city does the Helena Modrzejewska Old Theater operate?
What is the Polish equivalent of the term "Renaissance"?
In what year did the October Revolution take place in Russia?
Carved into the rock, was the Gemonian Staircase part of ancient Rome or Athens?
Nigeria and Niger are different names for the same country in Africa or two different countries?
The capital of which country is the city of Caracas?
What is the title of Andrzej Wajda's first feature film?
Can the absolute value of a number be negative?
Which city was the first headquarters of the international police organization Interpol?
From which country is Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Nobel Prize for Literature winner and author of "One Hundred Years of Solitude"?
A representative of which profession performs perms?
What is the name of the attire worn by judges and attorneys during a court hearing?
What is the name of a double-hulled boat?
Which marine animals of the semiaquatic type lived from the Cambrian to the Carboniferous?
Which vitamin deficiency is caused by scurvy?
What is the name of the lake in Scotland where the monster allegedly lives?
What is the name of the State Song and Dance Ensemble founded in 1948 by Tadeusz Sygietyński?
Vespa is a brand of Italian scooters and the Italian name for which insect?
How many square meters does a square kilometer contain?
What officer rank is higher than captain but lower than lieutenant colonel?
What does the English saying "pure nonsense" mean?
The capital of which country is Khartoum?
On which island is the Dominican Republic located?
Where is the grave of Prince Joseph Poniatowski located?
On which continent is Coppola's "Apocalypse Now" set?
How many coordinates does it take to determine the position of a point on the plane?
Which continent is the smallest?
In which state is Cape Canaveral, the main U.S. space training ground, located?
Where did Darius the Great of the Akhmenid dynasty establish his capital?
Is algae an algae?
What is the name of the South American ostrich?
In chess, what is the sacrifice of a pawn or figure for a better position called?
Which plant is the symbol of Scotland?
What is the Latin name for the period between the date a piece of legislation is promulgated and the date it comes into effect?
What is the title of Molière's comedy, whose main character's name was Harpagon?
In what age was Witold Gombrowicz born?
What is the name of the science that deals with the study of the cultures of different peoples?
In what year was the Polish government-in-exile transferred from France to Great Britain?
Which order is hidden under the acronym SJ?
Which Beethoven symphony ends with "Ode to Joy"?
According to the proverb, what do we pore over in the sun with?
In which field is the Pritzker Prize awarded?
What was the name of the Roman counterpart of the god of the art of medicine, worshipped by the Greeks under the name Asklepios?
Whose captivity do the English soldiers in the movie "Bridge on the River Kwai" get into?
In which month of 1825 did the armed uprising of the Decabrists break out in Russia?
The capital of which country is Abu Dhabi?
What was the name of the main direction of medieval Christian philosophy characterized by an effort to prove the validity of religious dogmas by reason?
What is included in Israel's emblem?
Is there a separate Welsh language?
Within which countries do the Pyrenees Mountains rise?
What do we call the boulders brought by the ice sheets?
What does the Italian term salto mortale mean in literal translation?
What is the English name for a dense urban fog containing exhaust particles?
How many lobes does the human liver consist of?
What do we call the graph of the tangent function?
What is the name of the religious songs of American Negroes, one of the sources of the blues, which were initially performed only during church services before becoming independent in the 1930s?
What was the name of the 1882 political-military alliance between Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy, which fell apart after 1915 after Italy joined the Entente?
What nationality was Ernesto Guevara?
What was the unemployment benefit colloquially called, after the politician?
What is the science of means and methods of detecting crime called?
What is the name of thin wrinkled decorative paper, a type of tissue paper?
Who is trying to write a letter to Waclaw in "The Revenge" under the dictation of Cześnik?
In what century did the French writer George Sand live?
What does the Latin "primum non nocere" mean?
Am license to drive a moped, streetcar or trolleybus?
Which process must oil undergo to obtain useful products from it?
Was Jude Thaddeus an apostle of Jesus?
Who sang the song "Diana" in 1957?
What is the name of a device that draws with a pen, an alternative to a computer printer?
The sulfide of which metal is galena?
From which drama by Gabriela Zapolska the quote comes: "I do not take such money for myself, I pay taxes with it"?
Marquetry is the art of lining wooden surfaces with a pattern of which material?
Was the Hindenburg with the designation LZ-129 a German warship?
What do we call the player of the main role in a Greek drama?
What dance, introduced into the operetta by Jacob Offenbach, aroused admiration among men, but also widespread scorn?
How many contestants are taking part in the third stage of the quiz show "One of Ten"?
Of how many 20-minute parts does an ice hockey game consist?
How many cooks are there where there is nothing to eat?
What is the name of the longest mountain range in the world?
What is the name of a hereditary disease involving a blood clotting disorder?
Where is the seat of the International Court of Justice located?
What is the name of the pigment found in skin, iris, hair?
What color is the maple leaf on the Canadian flag?
What did the Minotaur, locked in the labyrinth, feed on?
What is the name of the mausoleum where the most prominent representatives of art, culture and science are buried at St. Peter's Church in Krakow?
The name of which international organization has the abbreviation WHO?
What is the name of the document stating that insurance has been taken out?
Who introduced the concept of energy quanta?
Is internal medicine a hospital infectious disease unit
In tennis and volleyball, what is the ball called touching the net while serving?
On the street of which city does the main character of Boris Pasternak's novel "Doctor Zhivago" die?
What is the name of the Central Bank in Poland?
What is the name of the clergyman who performs pastoral duties in the army, prison, hospital?
Greenland is an autonomous part of which country?
Does the Neman River flow through Poland?
What is the diminutive male name for the pillow in the bedroom?
Into which river does the Lusatian Neisse River flow?
In which country is the city of Pamplona located?
What city is Adam Malysz from?
What was the name of an American jazz trumpeter and singer who lived from 1901-71?
Which waves can propagate in a vacuum: sound or radio?
What is the name of a document issued by a doctor, which constitutes an order for the dispensing or preparation of a drug by a pharmacy?
What was the name of The Animals' biggest hit, which is a poignant version of an old American folk song?
Which saint was the mother of John the Baptist?
Which country is Maria Sharapova from?
How did Socrates die?
What is the name of the journalist, columnist, founder and editor of "Life and Modernity," president of SDP?
In which country did Urho Kekkonen serve as prime minister and later as president?
What is the name of the successor to the sailing ship "Dar Pomorza"?
What was the codename of the U.S. project to create an atomic bomb during World War II?
How many liters is one cubic decimeter?
What is the name of the facility to care for the terminally ill?
Which city is the seat of the Swedish royal court?
In which month is the Earth closest to the Sun?
In what year did the Polish national soccer team win 3rd place at the World Cup in Spain under the leadership of Antoni Piechniczek?
Tortilla - a type of thick omelet with various toppings - is a specialty of which country?
Which ocean is the smallest: the Atlantic, Pacific or Indian?
What color does litmus color in acidic solution?
From which language is the unit of area "morga" derived?
Who played the role of Matthew Birkut in "Man of Marble" and "Man of Iron"?
What instrument did Louis Armstrong play?
With whom did the Polish national team play the final match in soccer at the Munich Olympics?
Is the Vltava River a tributary of the Elbe River?
What kind of animal was the Behemoth from the novel The Master and Margarita?
How many degrees is the boiling point of water on the Fahrenheit scale?
What is the name of the traveler who was the first to reach India by sea from Europe?
On which special night once a year does a fern bloom?
Which pope in the 20th century ruled the Church for only 33 days?
What do we call a set of rules for using punctuation marks?
Which country boasted a navy called the Grand Armada?
Czubatka is a Polish breed of hen or duck?
Which branch of medicine deals with pediatric diseases?
Do mushrooms contain chlorophyll?
What was the name of the scientific program led by Andrzej Kurek and Zdzislaw Kaminski?
Who played against the hosts in the final match in the 1978 World Cup in Argentina?
What was the name of the Roman water supply?
What is the name of the form of security for repayment of debt on real estate?
What do we call exchanging old currency for new currency?
Tritium is the radioactive isotope of which element?
What does a named judgment consist of?
Which philosophical direction assumes that true knowledge of reality is based on experience?
Was Winston Churchill prime minister of Great Britain after World War II?
Was Enrico Caruso a famous bass or tenor?
What is the name of the geological unit of time in the history of the Earth, which is part of a period and divided into centuries?
Who is the author of the tragedy entitled. "Seven against Thebes"?
How many dots does the polygon contain?
On the occasion of what event did Joseph Verdi compose the opera "Aida"?
Are Satyr and Satyr mythical spouses?
What is the name of the studio of the sculptor, painter?
What is the title of John Ehrlichman's book that describes the events surrounding the Watergate affair?
What was the person pumping air into the organ bellows called?
In which competition was Waldemar Baszanowski a multiple record holder?
In which field have Polish Nobel laureates received the most awards?
Which animal is staring at the painted gates?
How do you read a Roman numeral written as CCC?
Who do Latinos contemptuously call a gringo?
What instrument did the lovely instrumentalist in the Skalds' song play?
Who is the director of the movie "Seven Samurai"?
The chairman of which party was Aleksander Kwasniewski until he became president?
In what century was Justinian's code written?
Which part of speech - adjective, participle, or adverb - is conjugated by cases?
Which short story by Joseph Conrad features Kurtz and Marlow?
Which Western European capital is the headquarters of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, or UNESCO?
In which city is "Promised Land" set?
What is the name of the longtime TV weather presenter, popularly known as "Wicherk"?
What was the name of the Soviet original fighter plane built in Poland under the name LIM?
What is the name of the Polish representative who won an Olympic gold medal in sailing in the Finn class?
The military decoration Cross of Valor was established in Poland before or after World War II?
By playing which instrument did Wanda Wiłkomirska gain fame?
What is the name of brothers who lived in the late 18th and early 19th centuries, of whom John was a mathematician and Jedrzej was a chemist?
With the fleet of which country did the Poles fight at the Battle of Oliva?
To pay like grain is to pay too little or too much?
If we move 10 km/h, in how many minutes will we cover 15 km?
Which ancient physician lived earlier: Galen or Hippocrates?
Which country hosted the 2018 Winter Olympics?
What do we call a series of groups of organisms arranged in such an order that each preceding one is the food base for the next?
What was the name of Monica's frog friend, the protagonist of the popular program "Ciuchcia" in the 1990s?
In which country is the city of Salzburg located?
What can happen according to the lyrics of Anita Lipnicka's hit song?
There were three wars between Rome and Carthage called the Punic Wars. Which of them ended in victory for Carthage?
Blue helmets are a popular name for EU, NATO or UN peacekeepers?
Which director and long-time director is named after the Powszechny Theater in Warsaw?
What is the frequency of the AC power grid in Poland?
Does the wasp's stinger fit in the front or back of its body?
What was the service rank of Slawomir Borewicz, the protagonist of "07 report"?
A favorable attitude toward which country does a Germanophile have?
What else do we call the Ten Commandments, which are the basis of Jewish and Christian morality, according to the Bible revealed to Moses on Mount Sinai?
What is the name of the agrotechnical action of placing seeds at a certain depth, in the top layer of soil, as evenly spaced as possible, and covering them with soil?
What is the name of Hermaszewski, the first Polish cosmonaut?
With whom, under the command of Prince Józef Poniatowski, did the Polish army fight in the Battle of Raszyn?
On which continent was the land of Eldorado supposed to be located?
From which country did the Order of Pauline Fathers come to Poland?
In what year was the Yalta conference held?
Who, according to the Gospel of St. John, said of Christ: "Behold the man"?
What is the exchange of one commodity for another without the use of money called?
Which river is Tomaszów Mazowiecki located on?
Which country was the first to enact a constitution?
The measure of what in old Poland was a włóka?
Which element has the chemical symbol Ra?
What is the name of the passive element of an electric circuit whose main physical property is electrical resistance?
Does the pole vault belong in the decathlon?
What color was the Phrygian cap?
How many quintals is a ton?
Euripides' "The Bacchantes" is a tragedy, comedy or mystery?
What was the name of the hero whose mother was Alkena?
Is the tenor a male or female voice?
By which sea is Tel Aviv located?
What do we call determining the age of materials using the laws of radioactive decay, such as the 12C and 14C carbon isotope method?
At the Battle of Kircholm in 1605, the Swedish army was defeated by the Polish army led by whom?
How many medals at the Athens Games did Otylia Jedrzejczak win?
Which quiz show has been hosted by Karol Strasburger since 1994?
What was the name of a productive farm in the USSR, farming on state land given for free use to an agricultural cooperative?
In which religion are the most important holidays the Feast of the End of Fasting and the Feast of Sacrifices?
What nationality was St. John Bosco?
What nationality was the famous composer Aram Khachaturian?
In which country is the city of Toulon, once a Greek colony, then part of the Roman Empire?
Where in Moscow is the tsar can and the tsar kolokol located?
Was Sweden neutral during World War II?
What is the name of the ancestral organization of a society in which the male has a dominant role?
In which city is the Dominican fair held?
Podgórze and Prądnik - which districts of which city?
What was the name of the Polish representative who won the Olympic title in equestrianism at the Moscow Olympics?
What was intended for warriors on foot - a kick or a pika?
What was the bravery in the title of Mel Gibson's 1996 Academy Award-winning film?
What is the highest military rank given in the Polish army since 1920?
What does the word gospel, which comes from the Greek, mean?
Which Polish writer received the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1980?
The rapidly developing countries of Asia are said to be which Asian predators?
What is the word for carbon monoxide (CO)?
From which airport did General Sikorski take off on his last flight?
Which Polish and Hungarian hero was also known by the name of Murad Pasha?
Who reached the South Pole in 33 days after Amundsen, and died of exhaustion on the way back?
What is the name of the European peninsula where the Emirate of Grenada existed?
Was Don Carlos an authentic character?
Who is the equivalent of a sergeant in the Navy?
What is the name of the tallest grass in the world?
According to the Old Testament, what was the name of the Israelite patriarch whose wife was Sarah?
In which country is the novel "To Whom the Bell Tolls" by Ernest Hemingway set?
Who played the role of Dr. Zosia Stankiewicz-Burska in the TV series "For Better or Worse"?
Are the Aztecs a family of Scandinavian or Aztec gods?
Who among the ancients became famous for shouting "Eureka!"?
Who was the manager of the dance orchestra that performed in the film "Serenade in the Valley of the Sun"?
Which Polish president signed the decree establishing the National Library in 1928?
What is the name of Italy's largest car company, founded in 1899?
In ancient Rome, what were slaves fighting in the arena called?
What is the name of the Italian composer, violin virtuoso, the title character of Lehar's operetta?
Which Polish director is the creator of the films "Amateur" and "Coincidence"?
Who played the lead role in the TV series "A Stake Larger Than Life"?
Who won the Nobel Prize for literature in 1924?
What is the name of an electric-powered bus that draws energy from hanging running wires?
Which drama is the role of the Old Faithful played by Ludwik Solski from?
Who headed the party in the Soviet Union from 1964 to 1982?
What liquid is most commonly measured in barrels?
What was the name of the steep rock wall on the Capitoline Hill from which the Romans during the Republic knocked down traitors?
Which country owns the island of Ithaca?
What is the name of an inert substance given to patients for therapeutic purposes?
Who did U.S. Olympic swimming champion Johnny Weissmuller play in Irving Thalberg's film?
How many levs do you have to take and bid to win a schlemiel in bridge?
Is the village of Lipce the setting of "The Peasants" or "The Wedding"?
If 2x equals 2, then how much is x?
What is the name for subjecting a fabric to alternating saturated steam and drying (e.g., by ironing) several times?
What was the name of the submarine captain in Jules Verne's novel "Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea"?
What name, derived from Greek, is given to the doctor's headphones?
In which city on the Roland Garros courts are tennis competitions held?
Was Gerwazy from Pan Tadeusz the keyholder of the Horeszko or Soplica families?
Who is the founder of the famous Wroclaw pantomime?
What was the name of a popular teleseminar show that appeared on the air for many years, hosted by Stanislava Ryster?
Nō, Kabuki and Burnaku are the three main types of theater of which country?
In which museum can the Rosetta Stone be viewed?
What is the name of the column-shaped cave infiltration that forms from the union of a stalactite with a stalagmite?
On which continent is Troy located?
"Der Spiegel" is a weekly, daily or monthly magazine?
What nationality was the physicist Ohm, the creator of the law of electric current flow?
What was the name of the English sailor and explorer who circumnavigated the world twice in the 18th century?
Who was the father of John Casimir?
Who was the king of scorers at the 1974 World Cup?
Who is the inventor of the periscope?
Which country occupies most of the peninsula called Asia Minor?
What is the name of the territory between the Noteć River, Lake Gopło and the Vistula River; its capital was Kruszwica?
Notre Dame Cathedral is the symbol of which city?
Which instrument did Benny Goodman play?
How many full weeks does a calendar year have?
What is the name of the secretion of the flower's honey gland cells?
In 1812, troops retreating from under Moscow suffered heavy losses while crossing which river?
To whom did God give the tablets of commandments?
How many bones does the forearm consist of?
Who commanded the Carthaginian army during the Second Punic War?
Does a tennis court have the same dimensions for singles and doubles play?
Sauerkraut has a sour taste because it contains ascorbic acid, lactic acid or acetic acid?
From which country did the women's costume called a mantilla or mantilla originate?
The singers of which British girl band were Mel C. and Victoria Adams?
In which city does the Doge's Palace stand?
What other name does the eggplant go by?
In what year was Poland admitted to the Council of Europe?
What is the name of the body that directs the day-to-day operations of a joint-stock company, limited liability company or cooperative?
Which lake is Chicago located on?
What is the name of the execution machine used during the French Revolution?
In which country is the Jazz Jamboree festival held?
Is Italian chianti wine sweet or dry?
Since which year has Labor Day been celebrated on May 1?
There are two countries on the North American continent that have the United States in their name. One of them is the United States of America, and the other?
Do cuckoos fly away from Poland for the winter?
To which famous drama is the libretto of "West Side Story," Leonard Bernstein's musical, referenced?
What is the name of a winter bipod that includes rifle shooting and running?
To whom did Hephaestus forge the magnificent armor at Thetis' request?
What phrase did Queen Elizabeth II say in Polish during a speech in the Sejm?
What was the name of the admiral, founder and commander of the Abwehr, the German military intelligence service, who was assassinated on Hitler's orders in 1945?
What do we call a number raised to the third power?
What is the term for a quadrangular courtyard in the monastery buildings, surrounded by cloisters, with a small garden?
How many apostles were appointed by Jesus Christ?
Sagarmatha is the Nepalese name for which mountain?
What did the kitten in the children's song get on?
Which city is the capital of Syria?
The opposite of superata is...?
What was the name of the first Soviet vehicle to travel on the surface of the Moon?
What is the name of Jerzy Owsiak's charity?
What name did Volodyevsky bear?
What is the name of the permanent elementary particle with a positive electric charge that is part of the atomic nucleus?
What kind of writing did the Babylonians and Sumerians use?
Finish: "Poor as a mouse...?"
A ream is 100, 500 or 1,500 sheets of paper?
Give the full Polish name of the UPA army?
How many so-called Punic (Carthaginian) wars was fought by Rome against Carthage between 264 and 146 B.C.?
What is the name of the percussion instrument, attached inside the hand, used by Spanish dancers?
Is the adversary an ally or an adversary?
What is the name of the main character of a folk play related to the legend of the Tatar attack in Krakow, riding a wooden horse?
What is the name of the only EU institution whose members are directly elected?
Are storks carnivorous birds or arvore birds?
Is the cycling race part of the biathlon or triathlon?
In boxing, what is the name for a fighter's temporary inability to continue fighting?
What chemical symbol does sulfur have?
What according to the proverb goes around in a circle?
He performed in theaters in Krakow and Warsaw, played in "The Wedding," "The Promised Land," "Korczak" - who is it about?
From which fairy tale does the spell "Sesame open!" come?
Which Japanese city was destroyed by the 1995 earthquake?
Which Greek philosopher realized his doctrine of renunciation of all material possessions and his ideal of living in harmony with nature by living in a barrel?
Which degree on the Beaufort scale is quiet, no wind?
Under which USSR leader did Soviet troops intervene in Afghanistan?
In what year was the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics established?
In the battle near which city did Prince Joseph Poniatowski die?
How many Polish electoral kings came from the Vasa dynasty?
What is the name of the unit of inheritance that occupies a specific place in the chromosome and determines the occurrence of an organism's traits?
In which city is the Metropolitan Opera located?
What is the equivalent of a captain in the cavalry?
What is the name of the Polish writer, author of the novel "Wicked"?
What was the name of the mythical Greek singer whose music calmed the roaring waves and soothed the wild beasts?
Rubens shape is a slim or full figure?
At what age did women get the right to vote in the UKi?
Which of Europe's great metropolises is "worth the masses"?
What do we call crops that are sown at the end of summer and mature the following year?
Deficiency of which vitamin causes chicken blindness?
What was the name of Christopher Columbus' flagship during his first expedition?
Which zodiac sign falls in the period 24.10-22.11?
What is the name of the city in Japan, site of the 11th Winter Olympics in 1972?
In which month of the year does the day that divides the year exactly in half fall?
How many chambers does the human heart have?
On which letter of the alphabet did the names of the boys, listeners of Mr. Kleks' academy, begin?
Settlers of what nationality founded New York?
What is the name of the strong Siberian wind, as well as the USSR's first space shuttle, which took off in 1988?
What is the name of the garment worn by monks?
Through which continent does the Nile River flow?
To cease action after initial successes is to rest on what?
What is the name of the era in the history of the earth, divided into 3 periods: the Triassic, Jurassic and Cretaceous?
Do rhinos live in Asia?
What is the name of the railroad connecting the European part of Russia with Siberia?
What was the name of the god of love in Greek mythology?
Which continent has more surface area: Africa or North America?
The cultural center of which national minority is Punsk in Podlaskie Province?
Which Polish painter is the author of the 19th-century painting "Wernyhora"?
What was the name of Kant, the German philosopher?
What are the names of the remnants of meteoroids that fell to Earth?
Which part of the eye determines its color?
Common marshmallow is a plant with a strong smell, which is an agent against which insects?
Which lake of the Polish Tatra Mountains is the largest?
Which African insects cause significant damage by eating wood?
What color is the coat of a bull horse?
What is the integer part of the logarithm of some number called?
Which later French president participated in a military mission to Poland in 1920-1921?
To whom did Ryszard Kaczorowski hand over the insignia of power of the Second Republic in 1990?
What does the English term "big beat" literally mean?
What term, derived from Latin, is used to describe the completion of higher education without a degree?
Who was the beloved of Eros?
Was Nicholas Rej a Calvinist or a Methodist?
In which Warsaw building did Eligiusz Niewiadomski shoot Gabriel Narutowicz?
Which country is inhabited by the Khmers?
Leech, scorpion or chameleon - which of these animals is a reptile?
What did Hanka Ordonnna lose under the copper?
What was the name of a Polish actor, who died in 1943, mainly associated with the Polish Theater in Warsaw, known, among other things, for his leading role in the film "Znachor"?
In India, what is the name of a man who does not belong to any caste and is deprived of all rights?
The founder of which city was Tsar Peter I of Russia?
Is the wigworm a shrub, bird or reptile?
In what century did portrait painter Henryk Rodakowski live?
Who played the male lead in Federico Fellini's "Eight and a Half"?
Was Delfina Potocka the wife of Zygmunt Krasinski?
What was the name of the herald of the Greek armies with the proverbial loud voice, a character in Homer's "Iliad"?
Logomachy is an idle argument about what?
In which novel by Henryk Sienkiewicz does the character of Marcus Vinicius appear?
What do we call recognition of a foreign diploma, title or degree as equivalent to a domestic one?
Is the element tungsten radioactive?
Who commanded the 5,000-strong Polish corps at the Battle of Dubienka?
Which Reich was Germany referred to as under Hitler?
On which river is Czersk, the medieval seat of the Mazovian princes?
What is the name of a group of merchants or travelers trekking across the steppe or desert with pack animals laden with cargo?
"Half pipe" is a term associated with which winter sport?
Who was the commander-in-chief of the Polish Army in France in 1918-19?
Which part of the Bible consists of more books - the Old or the New Testament?
Who is the creator of the "Turkish March"?
What is the metaphorical juxtaposition of two opposite words called?
Stinging nettle with trichomes, trichomes or trichomes?
What is the name of the cavity in the top of the barrel of a rocket gun, into which powder is poured?
What unit is the Kelvin?
What is the name of Earth's largest outletless lake?
Under whose control were the present-day states of Rwanda and Burundi before they gained independence?
What was the name of the Jewish religious and judicial institution in ancient Judea whose death sentence on Jesus was confirmed by Pilate?
In what century did Molière live?
Who is the author of "Capital"?
Which party did Felipe González Marquez, Spain's prime minister from 1982-96, belong to?
On whose story was the film "Mother Joan of Angels" based?
To deceive, to outsmart someone is to lead someone where?
Which takes longer: the circulation of Venus around the Sun or the rotation around its axis?
Which animal do we invoke: basia, basia, basia?
Which general created the Polish legions in Italy during the Napoleonic era?
Who became the first CEO of the Warsaw Stock Exchange?
Who painted the paintings "Batory at Pskov" and "Sobieski at Vienna"?
Which birds distribute the mail in the world of Harry Potter, the hero of Joanne Rowling's books?
Is a brig a one- or two-masted ship?
What is the name of the famous Russian dancer of Polish origin, the author of the choreography for, among other things, the world premiere performance of "The Rite of Spring"?
Until what year was Bonn the capital of West Germany?
Which ocean is bigger: the Atlantic or the Indian?
Which country was Rembrandt from?
What is the phenomenon of decreasing material strength under long-term alternating loads called?
Which currency is used in Northern Ireland - the euro or the British pound?
What is the wife of a farm owner in Podhale called?
Who was Maria Callas by profession?
In how many states of matter does water exist?
Which European country, in 1967, sanctioned religious activity and declared itself the first atheist state in the world?
Who wrote the words "Let the nations know that Poles are not geese, that they have their own language"?
Which war did the Treaty of Versailles end?
On which play by George Bernard Shaw was the libretto of one of the most famous musicals, "My Fair Lady," staged in New York in 1956?
What is the trade name of the mineral magnesium silicate, used in cosmetics?
Which of the princes of Moscow was the first to assume the title of Czar of Rus?
What is the title of Aldous Huxley's 1932 anti-utopian novel?
Are Orthodox and Protestants Christians?
What is the name of a linguistic construction whose meaning cannot be derived from the meaning of the individual words that make it up?
Who is the composer of the Brandenburg Concertos of 1721 written for the court band of the great music lover Christian Ludwig, Margrave of Brandenburg?
Was Marilyn Monroe an Academy Award winner?
How many atoms does one water molecule contain?
What is the name of the contract for renting an aircraft for a specific flight or time?
What is the name of the dynasty currently reigning in Denmark?
Is a sonnet a musical or literary work?
What is the name of the main character in Gogol's comedy "The Revisor" who ridiculed the townspeople of a small Russian town?
What was the name of the father of Asia, the protagonist of the novel "Pan Volodyjowski"?
What was the name of the Cossack hetman who sparked the uprising in 1648?
In which country are Tatra cars manufactured?
What was the name of the pope in office during World War II?
In which country did the oberek originate?
What is the name of the town in Kuyavia known for the victory of Vladislav Lokietek's army over the Teutonic army in 1331?
Is the disease entity the patient or the disease?
Who described in "The Jungle Book" the story of a boy raised by wolves?
Who signed the act of surrender on the part of Germany on May 7, 1945?
Which U.S. president was awarded the Order of the White Eagle before World War II?
How many times have the Olympic Games been held in South America?
If a car travels one kilometer in one minute, how many seconds does it travel 100 meters?
Which birds make a voice called a clangor?
In what century was the Reichstag built in Berlin?
In which century did Poland break up into districts?
Which letter denotes the unit ampere?
What is the dispute in Alexander Fredro's drama "The Revenge" about?
With which phenomenon can bats avoid obstacles in the dark?
In what century was the University of Cambridge founded?
How do we place the knife and fork on the plate after we finish eating: parallel or crosswise?
What do we call the territory of a state, or part of it, surrounded on all sides by the land territory of another state?
Which Polish boxer won two Olympic gold medals in Tokyo and Mexico?
What is the name of the great French philosopher and mathematician, living in the 17th century, who said: "I think, therefore I am"?
A representative of which species was Manfred, the protagonist of the movie "Ice Age"?
What straitjacket is much longer than a normal straitjacket?
Who was the only president of the USSR?
Which country annexed Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1908?
What is the smell of helium?
What was hanging over Damocles?
Which composer is the author of the operetta "Land of Smiles"?
What is the name of a plant that generates electricity using a nuclear reactor?
In which village did Sir Arthur Evans discover the ruins of Minos' palace in 1899?
Who wrote "One Day of Ivan Denisovich" and "The Gulag Archipelago"?
In what year was the opening of the Warsaw Philharmonic held?
The novel "The Day of the Jackal" by Frederic Forsyth refers to the assassination of Indira Gandhi, General de Gaulle or J.F. Kennedy?
In which Italian city is Puccini's opera "Tosca" set?
What is the science of the origin of words and their original meaning called?
How many minutes in total do both halves of a soccer match last?
How many medals did American swimmer Mark Spitz win at the Munich Olympics?
In which South American city was the 1992 session of the Earth Summit - the International Conference "Environment and Development", dedicated to environmental and ecological problems?
Is the Sun inside or outside the planetary system?
What is the common name for thin high heels in women's shoes?
Which bell is older: The Sigismund Bell or Big Ben?
By what name did ancient Rome's wars with Carthage go down in history?
Which word is incorrectly used in the proverb: "Every two heads is not three"?
What is the name of the theory that proclaims that nothing is absolutely true and depends on the individual feelings of each person?
The protagonist of which novel by Stefan Żeromski was Rafał Olbromski?
What was the name of the sorceress from the legend of King Arthur?
To which country do the Canary Islands belong?
The co-founder and keyboardist of which American rock group was Ray Manzarek, who died in 1972?
In which month in the northern hemisphere does autumn begin?
Was artillery used in the Battle of Grunwald?
What do we call the highest authority in a joint-stock company?
What was the name of the tolls charged for crossing bridges or cities by land or water?
Who was the leader of the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia?
What are the names of the American tennis players of the Williams sisters?
Which daughter of Agamemnon helped her brother Orestes kill her mother, avenging her father?
How many countries signed the Munich Agreement?
What is the name of the museum that houses Leonardo da Vinci's painting "Mona Lisa"?
What is the name of the dried grass fed in winter what animal feed?
In which city rises the Golden Mountain, on which a 14-meter monument to John Paul II was recently erected?
In which disease is insulin administered?
What is the name of a prominent Russian dancer and ballet master, playing the lead role in the American film "White Nights"?
The editor-in-chief of which magazine was Jerzy Turowicz since 1945?
What is more important when it comes to crossing priority: traffic signals or road signs?
The sons of which gods were Remus and Romulus?
Who was the first chancellor of the German Reich?
Who plays the character of Jim Lovell in the movie "Apollo 13"?
Are phytophages herbivores or a component of human blood?
In the Christian religion, what is the name of the highest-ranking angel in the angelic choir, depicted in art with three pairs of wings?
What is the name of the fruit of the oak tree?
What is the name of a nomadic Berber people in the central Sahara?
In what century did the repulse of Turkish besieged Vienna take place?
Which Polish king erected a 22-meter high column in Warsaw, which was crowned by a statue of King Sigismund?
Which continent is circumnavigated by the Timor Sea, Arafura Sea, Coral Sea and Tasman Sea?
Do bryophytes have roots?
Which team was the opponent of "Górnik Zabrze" in the final of the Cup Winners' Cup in 1970?
Is the diplodocus a species of fossil reptile?
In what year was the Peace of Oliva signed?
Which letter in the international phonetic alphabet used by pilots stands for sierra?
The city of Istanbul was previously called Constantinople. And what was the name of the city in ancient times?
What do we call the number by which we divide?
Is mumps an infectious disease?
Who hosted a DIY program for many years?
In what century was Stanislaw Moniuszko's opera "The Haunted Manor" premiered?
What was the name of the first king of Poland from the Piast dynasty?
What precious metal mimics tombac, a copper-zinc alloy used to make inexpensive jewelry?
Which American singer launched the hit ".... Baby One More Time?"
Which street is the Polish Sejm sitting on?
According to Cicero, what is habit to man?
What was the name of the political movement initiated by Lech Walesa in 1993?
In which city was Jozef Pilsudski imprisoned during World War I?
In which city are Falcon helicopters manufactured?
Did the Hungarian composer Bela Bartok create an opera?
What is the name of the palace, the seat of the French president?
Does Ryszard Szurkowski hold the title of individual world champion?
What is the name of St. Ignatius, the founder of the powerful Jesuit order, characterized by a strict rule of obedience?
What is the name of a straight line that has one point in common with a circle?
What is the name of the pollen-producing element of the flower, consisting in angiosperm plants of a head and a thread?
How many dots does a polygon count?
Which writer created the character of Philip Marlowe?
Snowdrops bloom in spring or late autumn?
Which city is the capital of Norway?
What are the names of the striped mammals of the equine family?
On which continent does the wildebeest antelope live naturally?
Which Mediterranean island did the British use as a naval and air base during World War II?
Please provide the names of the feuding families from which Romeo and Juliet came.
Where did the Arpad dynasty reign?
What is the name of the author of the book "Dark, Almost Night"?
Which European dictator assumed the title of Duce?
Who played the lead role in Michael Curtiz's "Casablanca"?
On the territory of which state is the city of Kursk located?
Which two letters stand for intelligence quotient?
What is the name of the world's deepest lake?
Who painted the landscape with the merciful Samaritan, located in the Czartoryski Museum in Krakow?
The image of which king is on the 100 zloty banknote?
What is the name of the scientific commentary on the court verdict?
In which work did Adam Mickiewicz describe Jankiel's concert?
Is glucose a simple sugar?
What sport does the heroine of Clint Eastwood's film "At Any Price" play?
Which two colors dominate the magpie's plumage?
In the 9th century, Krakow was the center of which tribe?
What course did Joseph Pilsudski start at the University of Kharkov?
What do we call the crime of a mother killing her child during childbirth?
From what plant, besides the beet, is sugar made?
Who is the author of the comedy "The miser"?
Which gas is the main component of Venus' atmosphere?
What is the name of an early Iron Age Lusatian culture stronghold discovered in 1933 in Greater Poland?
Is a kier a red heart or a red rhombus?
Do the oceans form a single entity or are they not contiguous?
Which disease was the cause of Chopin's death?
What is the name of the consonant doubled in the word "maiden," for example?
Is iodine a solution of iodine in water or alcohol?
What else is the auditory trumpet called?
Which Polish king was born in Sweden?
Which prominent German physician who lived at the turn of the 20th century discovered mycobacterium tuberculosis?
Who is the author of the novel on which the film "Promised Land" was based?
What color was the rabbit from the book "Alice in Wonderland"?
In which city is the Museum of the History of Polish Jews located?
In which country was the first railroad opened?
Was Epicurus a Greek or Roman philosopher?
Which body part does Irena Kwiatkowska praise in the movie "Hallo Spitzbrodka"?
What is the name of the Czech director, creator of the films "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" and "Amadeus"?
What is the name of the frog, one of the main characters of "The Muppet Show"?
Finish the saying: "He laughs who...".
What is the name of the first singer of the band Varius Manx?
BCG is a vaccine against which disease?
What is the name of the acid that forms during exercise in the muscles?
Please indicate the year of the introduction of martial law in Poland.
What was Athena wearing at the time of her birth?
In which village did Jesus raise Lazarus?
Ceroplasty is the art of carving in which material?
Whose wife was Isolde the Fair-haired, the heroine of a medieval epic about love?
What was the name of the prophet and teacher who baptized Jesus Christ?
From which country was the scientist who introduced the division of blood types?
Who composed the music for the opera "King Roger"?
Does Malta belong to the European Union?
Is the hippopotamus a herbivorous or carnivorous animal?
What is the title of Roman Polanski's film about Wladyslaw Szpilman?
What was the name of the Soviet nurse in love with Janek Kos?
To what animals are the victims of aesthetic medicine and the small mouth complex compared?
Dyscalculia is a disorder of which skill?
What do we call a spacecraft designed to repeatedly transport people and equipment into Earth orbit?
What is the name of the part of the city of Brest where the large and famous brewery is located?
How many years is the term of the Senate in the US?
Are isotopes known for each element?
One decigram how many grams is that?
Are tapirs mammals or reptiles?
What is the name for the opacity of the lens of the eye, causing visual impairment or blindness?
Omega, Vectra, Astra - these are names associated with what brand of car?
What do we call each female animal?
What river is Bialystok located on?
Does the district govern the county or the municipality?
What is the name of the Polish composer who wrote the music for Coppola's film "Dracula"?
Which city is the capital of Bavaria?
What is the name of the archipelago located in the Indian Ocean, south of India; an independent state since 1965?
What is the name of the device installed in homes or cars that maintains a constant, preset temperature and humidity?
What is the name of a Tatra lake, which is also the name of one of Warsaw's parks?
In ancient Rome, what was the name of the official in charge of the census, estimating the assets of the population and controlling their morals?
What was the name of the medieval ruler, not subject to anyone's authority?
Where did the elevator go in the song by the band 2 plus 1?
Great Britain, France, USA - in which country was slavery abolished the latest?
Who was Demeter to Zeus?
Which side in World War I did Serbia fight on?
Which music band released the albums "Emu" and "Elf"?
Who took power immediately after the death of Joseph Stalin?
In which province is Gorzow Wielkopolski located?
What is the name of the designer of the first diesel compression-ignition engine?
What is the title of the work by Szymon Szymonowic whose characters are Oluchna and Petrucha?
Where is the homeland of the kiwi bird located?
What kind of kinship did Jack Soplica and the Judge have in common?
Who was the creator of the Carolingian power?
What was the name of the demonstration of representatives of 141 cities organized in Warsaw during the Four-Year Sejm in support of the reform camp?
What is the name of the part of the plant whose primary function is photosynthesis?
Who is the director of the film: "Walesa, Man of Hope"?
Which city hosted the first modern Olympic Games, held in Greece in 1896?
What is the name of the punishment involving exile from the home country?
From which continent the Swahili language originated
What was the name of the son of St. Monica, Bishop of Hippona, Doctor of the Church who lived at the turn of the 4th and 5th centuries?
Does a farsighted person wear focusing or diffracting lenses?
What is the name of an agreement of an international nature between the Holy See and a specific country?
What is the name of an army that fights on foot?
To which country does the island of Lampedusa belong?
What is the title of Franz Lehar's operetta from which the aria "The mouth is silent, the soul sings" comes?
For his role in which film did Tom Hanks receive the second Oscar of his career?
Complete the proverb: "what country is..."?
What is the name of a Polish dancer born in 1944, a soloist with the ballet of the Grand Theater in Warsaw and the 20th Century Ballet, among others?
On which day of the year does the Catholic Church celebrate Epiphany?
Do the Flemish or Walloons have more inhabitants in Belgium?
Part of which ocean is the Hebridean Sea?
From which dynasty did King Ladislaus I Lokietek of Poland come?
In which month does April Fool's Day fall in Poland?
What was the name of the girl who saved her friend Kai in Christian Andersen's "The Snow Queen"?
Does freeze-drying food mean depriving it of water or fat?
Is a lobster a marine or freshwater crustacean?
Whose name is the oldest bridge in Czech Prague named after?
What is the name for a morbid fear of being indoors?
Is the beaver a rodent, predator or ruminant?
An autonomous part of which country are the Faroe Islands?
Who told the tales of the thousand and one nights?
What is the name of the largest artificial water reservoir in Poland, built on the San River?
What country is Justin Timberlake from?
From which country did Marc Chagall originate?
In which mountains is Lysa Polana located?
The Order of the Rising Sun is the highest decoration of which country?
What was the codename of the plan for the Third Reich's aggression against the Soviet Union?
Which national hero is depicted in the monument at the lower gate leading to Wawel Castle?
What is the name of the acid also called niacin or vitamin PP?
What is the name of one of the world's most extensive libraries, located in Washington, DC?
In tennis, what is it called to flip the ball in a high arc over the opponent?
The product of two numbers with opposite signs is always positive or always negative?
Of how many literary works does a tetralogy consist?
Which city is located on both the Vistula River and the Drweca River?
What nationality was the architect Antonio Gaudi?
To which order of insects do dawnbeaks and meadowlarks belong?
Are there mammals that have the ability to fly?
What is the name of potatoes derived from the German language?
In what year did the First Partition of Poland occur?
Does Warsaw's Aleje Ujazdowskie belong to the so-called Royal Route?
Does Honduras have access to the Pacific Ocean?
How many degrees is a solid angle?
What number appears in the title of a popular series about Beverly Hills teens?
Of how many periods does the periodic table of elements consist?
In which country was President Giorgio Napolitano elected to a second term?
The port side is the port or starboard side of the ship?
Who in 1918 was the author of the appeal contained in 14 points, calling for world peace?
On which river is Malbork located?
What is the name of the palace located near the Royal Castle in Warsaw, which was the residence of Prince Joseph Poniatowski?
The wives of which Polish king were Catherine of Austria and Elizabeth of Austria?
In what century did Stanislaw Kostka live?
Who is the author of the colonnade in the square in front of St. Peter's Basilica?
Did the January Uprising and the November Uprising take place in the same century?
What is the name of the ornament in the shape of a small hoop made of precious metals, expensive stones, etc. usually worn by women above the wrist of the hand?
Which lizard changes coloration easily?
What was the name of the defensive fortification system about 4,000 kilometers long built by the Germans during World War II to protect Western Europe from Allied invasion from the sea?
Is excise tax an indirect or direct tax?
What was the name of the last ruler of Poland from the Piast dynasty?
How many is twelve divided by four?
In which city was Christ born?
Speech is silver. And what is silence?
What is the name of the Polish composer of the first half of the 20th century, author of the ballet "Harnasie"?
Which city is the capital of Nepal?
In which city is Hyde Park located?
Which organ defect is astigmatism?
To whom is the museum located in the Naglowice Manor dedicated?
What does the Italian call "Eviva l'arte!" mean?
Who in the Catholic Church appoints the bishop?
From which country does the ancient farandola dance originate?
From which historical event did Miron Bialoszewski write a memoir?
What is the name of the actor who played the role of Rzecki in the TV series "The Doll"?
In what year was the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia established?
Is Cupid the Roman equivalent of the Greek Eros?
What is the name of the anti-Jewish laws passed in Germany in 1935?
Who is the composer of the opera "Sold Bride"?
Which strait connects the Mediterranean Sea to the Atlantic Ocean?
Which city is the constitutional capital of the Netherlands?
Which president held office earlier: Narutowicz or Wojciechowski?
How many days in a row are mournful Gregorian Masses celebrated?
What does a rectangular road sign with a white P on a blue background mean?
What is the name of a popular potato pest allegedly dropped by Americans on Polish fields in the 1950s?
What was the name of the French playwright who lived in 1732-99, the author of the comedies "The Barber of Seville" and "The Marriage of Figaro"?
In which city was the 13th Row Theater established?
Is King Lear the mythical king of Britain or Ireland?
What do we call the processes of fossil formation resulting from the transformation of organic plant and animal remains into inorganic components of the Earth's crust?
What is the name of the Polish infantry formed under Stefan Batory, which included peasants?
What was the name of the legendary Cossack, the Ukrainian lyricist?
From which land does Geralt, the Witcher from Andrzej Sapkowski's novels, hail?
What kind of leaves are stuffed cabbage rolls wrapped in in the Balkans?
What was the name of the political grouping active during the French Revolution that was based in the Convent of St. James in Paris?
What draws the wolf to the forest?
What is the name of a secret ballot using white and black cards, the word comes from French?
Bromine at room temperature is solid, gas or liquid?
The result of multiplying two real numbers with two different signs is positive or negative?
The capture of which part of Warsaw by the Russians became the actual end of the Kosciuszko Insurrection?
Which field of science did the American scientist Norbert Wiener study?
Which king established the Maritime Commission, Poland's first shipping authority, in the 16th century?
What nationality was Balzac?
In what century did Ignatius Loyola found the Jesuit order?
Which character in the Valley of the Mummies writes a diary of his own youth?
Which work was written earlier: "Dziady" or "Pan Tadeusz"?
In what year was the Tehran conference held?
What is the name for a rise in the price of securities or commodities listed on the stock market?
In what year was Polish prose writer Tadeusz Konwicki born?
Please state the first three letters of the Greek alphabet?
In which two countries is the rupee the currency?
Do beavers feed on fish?
What is the name of the part of the plow used to cut the skid, the blade that slices the soil?
What is the name of the officer assigned to the senior commander's disposal?
What were the names of Lazarus' two sisters from Bethany?
What is the name of the magma that rose to the surface of the earth?
White Mountains, Green Mountains - these are the ranges of which American mountains?
Crossing which river Caesar said the following words: "The dice have been cast"?
Chromatic signs (bemol, cross, punch) are placed over a note, before a note or instead of a note?
What is the name of the home of North American Indians?
Are metresa and medresa the same thing?
What is the eye's adaptation to seeing objects from different distances or to different light intensities called?
Is Belgium a member of the United Nations?
Are crocodiles viviparous or oviparous?
What was the title of the TV series about the dramatic love between a rich planter and a beautiful slave girl?
Which anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising will fall in 2024?
Who, under the political will drawn up on 29.04.1945 by Adolf Hitler, became his successor?
What were the heavily-armed infantrymen, armed with helmet, armor, nagolenniki, leather shield, spear and sword, fighting in the Greek and Macedonian phalanx, called?
What is the name of the Polish sailor who was the first woman to circumnavigate the world alone on the yacht "Mazurek"?
In which Russian city is the famous Tretyakov Gallery located?
Followers of which religion dominate in Indonesia?
In what year was the Berlin Wall erected?
Which director made his debut in cinema earlier: Andrzej Wajda or Krzysztof Zanussi?
Is the title of Giuseppe Verdi's opera "La Traviata" also the name of the main character of the opera?
Further brothers to the mace is a song from the November Uprising period. Is the aforementioned boule a type of firearm or an incisive weapon?
Prince Pan is the antagonist of the title character of the fairy tale "Rumcajs" or "The Abduction of Balthazar Spong"?
What bird is associated with a rumor, a made-up news item reported in the press?
What great oratorio is George Friedrich Handel's famous "Hallelujah" a part of?
Which Polish king sentenced Stanislaw of Szczepanów to death for treason?
In which country is Dubrovnik, the pearl of the Adriatic Sea, located?
Does the turtledove, an insect of the cricket family, spend most of its life underground?
What is the name of the process in nature that converts carbon dioxide and water into sugar and oxygen?
What was the name of the Israelite in the Babylonian captivity who translated dreams to Nebuchadnezzar?
Finish the proverb: "and the wolf is full, and ..."
In December 1982, the communist authorities banned the sale of alcohol before what time?
On which part of the body do Greek Catholic clergymen impose a cloche?
What is clergy celibacy called?
How many weeks did the balloon trip in the title of Jules Verne's novel last?
In which country is the medal "Meritorious for Culture Gloria Artis" awarded?
Does Slovenia border Austria?
What was the title of the newspaper that was the organ of the Central Committee of the Communist Party?
What is the depth of the Mariana Trench - more or less than 10,000 meters?
How many black squares does an 8 x 8 checkerboard have?
Who in Goethe's "Faust" uttered the words: "Theory is gray, and the golden tree of life is evergreen"?
In which U.S. state is Hollywood located?
To which country does the island of Java belong?
On which continent do the yaks live?
What instrument records changes in atmospheric pressure?
In which sport was the world record holder Janusz Sidlo?
What is the name of the central state library opened in Warsaw in 1928?
Hippies are a youth movement that originated in the 1960s in which country?
With the armies of which country did the Polish army fight at Kircholm in 1605?
Exports are the importation of goods, capital and services from abroad, or their exportation abroad?
Which blood pressure is higher: systolic or diastolic?
Does the Orthodox Church recognize the same number of sacraments as the Catholic Church?
What is the name of the geological unit of division of geological formations - the set of rocks formed during the epoch?
In which battle with the Russian army in 1794 did Tadeusz Kosciuszko get captured?
How many arms do snow stars usually have?
In which city is Leonardo da Vinci's painting "Lady with an Ermine" located?
Through which countries does the Tagus River flow?
Which city is the capital of the Democratic Republic of Congo?
Is brass an alloy or an element?
In which field did the Nobel Prize go to Samuel Beckett?
Which city hosted the last Summer Olympics before World War II?
Is onomatopoeia a sound imitation or a modern form of verse?
In which part of "Dziady" did Mickiewicz place the Great Improvisation?
What was the name of a 17th-century astronomer from Gdansk, the founder of modern selenography?
In which village is the hospital from the TV series "For Better or Worse" located?
Who was the first chairman of the National Broadcasting Council?
Is nitrogen part of the protein?
What is the name of the oldest economic university in Poland?
The Vistula or the Seine - which river is longer?
Who became president of the United States after the assassination of John F. Kennedy?
Who is the author of the saying: "a new parable a Pole buys for himself, that both before the harm and after the harm he is stupid"?
Administratively, Italy is divided into provinces, regions or states?
In which Polish mountains is the limba found?
What is the art of building stringed, necked musical instruments called?
What is the process of destruction of plastics due to chemical and physicochemical interactions of the surrounding environment called?
What is the name of the traditional celebrations held in Poland to mark the completion of the harvest?
What was the name of the Polish ethnographer to whom we owe the enormous knowledge of the countryside and Polish folklore of the 19th century?
What was the name of the Polish jazz musician Karolak?
Stockfish - what species of fish is it?
What is the name of the verb's conjugation by persons, tenses, modes, numbers, and sides?
What is the name of the close-fitting goggles worn by skiers and motorcyclists?
In which city was Franz Ferdinand assassinated?
Who was elected president of France in the election held on May 7, 1995?
Which king granted rights to the city named Kazimierz Dolny?
Who composed the "Pathétique Sonata"?
What was the name of the queen of Poland (since 1975), wife of Stefan Batory, daughter of Sigismund I the Old and Bona?
What is the name for a thick layer of sedimentary rock that is particularly distinct from neighboring rocks?
Are St. John's wort and holly herb the same plant?
On the territory of which country are there monuments from Babylon?
What was the name of one of the leaders of the First Crusade who became ruler of Jerusalem in 1099?
What is the phenomenon of material bodies floating in the air called?
Is the Eiffel Tower a riveted or welded structure?
Rock crystal is a colorless variety of which mineral?
From which language is the name of the body of a small truck "pick up" derived?
What is the name of an object in space that orbits another celestial body?
How many volcanoes rose on the Little Prince's planet?
Which invertebrates that feed primarily on the blood of the host are used in a method called hirudotherapy?
What does the Spanish word "costa" mean?
Favelas are shantytowns on the outskirts of cities on which continent?
What is the name of a character from Adam Mickiewicz's epic titled. "Pan Tadeusz": Jew, innkeeper, dulcimer virtuoso?
What is the name of the device for driving piles into the ground using a heavy steel block, freely lowered and raised by a winch?
Which city is the capital of Azerbaijan?
Did dinosaurs belong to the vertebrates?
Which river and mountain is often followed by the action of the fairy tale?
In what year did General Jozef Haller perform the symbolic wedding of Poland to the sea?
Which king was immortalized by Jan Matejko in his painting "The Prussian Homage"?
Do Polish citizens flying to Schengen countries have to undergo passport checks at airports?
Which artist sings "We discover love unknown"?
On which continent is the puna, a high mountainous plant formation, found?
In which sea is the island of Cyprus located?
Is yeast a unicellular or multicellular fungus?
Which Polish director is the creator of the films "Train", "Mother Joan of Angels" and "Pharaoh"?
Is the secretary a bird, mammal or reptile?
What is the name of France's longest river?
Which city is the capital of Egypt?
Which country did opera singer Pavarotti come from?
Which spatial figure has more vertices: the dodecahedron or the icosahedron?
What is the name of Mojang studio's best-selling computer game?
The name of which fruit is used to describe a very large profit, earnings?
How many weddings were in the title of the movie with Andie MacDowell and Hugh Grant?
At what distance is the longest sprint race held?
What is the name of a written money order to a bank instructing the bearer to withdraw the sum indicated on it from the issuer's account?
Which neighboring country's currency do Liechtenstein residents use?
What is the name of the Swiss tennis player who has won the US Open five times in a row?
What do we call deliberate violation of the rules of the game, such as in soccer?
What is the title of the only opera written by Ludwig van Beethoven?
What is the name of Israel's famous 9mm submachine gun, designed in 1949 by Uziel Gal?
In what time does light travel one million kilometers: in about three seconds, three minutes or three hours?
How many players does a volleyball team consist of?
How many atria is the amphibian heart made of?
Do evergreen oaks occur in nature?
Which two countries does Mongolia border?
Whose name is Warsaw's Okęcie Airport named after?
What do we call instruments whose sound is created by hitting, shaking or rubbing?
How many common points can 4 parallel lines have in common?
What is the name of the gold-plated statuette awarded since 1929 by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in Los Angeles?
What kind of death did Queen Bona die?
Wladyslaw Kopalinski author of many dictionaries. Is Kopalinski his real name?
Tachycardia is an acceleration of the function of which organ?
Tirana is the capital of which country?
What is the name of the British Queen's only daughter Elizabeth II?
In which country was an all-terrain vehicle named ARO 10 manufactured?
What is the name of a people found in Nepal and India, whose representatives often work as porters?
In which archipelago is Midway Atoll located?
How many digits is the postal code in Poland?
Who in the Deluge said: "End you, save your shame"?
Songs by which band were featured on the soundtrack of the movie "Mamma Mia"?
What is the name of the crossword puzzle that involves guessing not only the passwords, but also where they should be written?
In which country was the first auction house established?
Does palliative treatment remove the cause of the disease?
What is the name of the strait that connects the Black Sea to the Sea of Marmara?
What is the name of the lightest chemical element?
What names did Karol Wojtyla take when he was elected pope?
In which building in Warsaw did the Four-Year Sejm sit?
What were the Macedonian chieftains who divided Alexander's state after his death called?
What is the plural of the word skipper?
What is the name of the tactile alphabet for the blind?
What is the name of a large park in the western part of Paris?
Is the Yakuza a Chinese or Japanese mafia?
What do we call the disease of poor vision in low light?
Does Mikhail Gogol's play "The Marriage" end with the main character's wedding?
What is the name of a semiconductor resistor whose resistance strongly depends on temperature?
Who wrote the novel about Anna Karenina's affair with Alexei Vronsky?
Did Boryna take part in the January or November uprising?
What does the Latin "suprema lex" mean?
What is the case variation of a noun called?
Which strait separates the islands of the Land of Fire from South America?
Which king approved the nihil novi constitution?
Against which king was the Bar Confederation directed?
Where is the annual Jan Kiepura festival held?
Which mountain range is the conventional border between the continents: Europe and Asia?
A collector of antique coins is...?
Does Poland belong to an OECD organization?
What is the name of the first Polish woman to receive the Lilienthal medal for outstanding achievement in gliding in 1960?
Who was the coach of the Polish national soccer team at the 1976 Montreal Olympics?
What is the name of Hungary's national dance?
Deuterium is an isotope of which element?
Which alphabet was developed earlier: the Cyrillic or the Gradish?
Which Roman emperor's wife was Messalina?
In which city is the National Polish Radio Symphony Orchestra headquartered?
In which country was hexagonal chess invented?
Did Maria Skłodowska Curie have children?
In what year was the first broadcast of the underground Solidarity radio station made?
"First", "second" - what kind of numerals are these?
Will 2025 be a leap year?
Who in Poland convenes the Cabinet Council?
What is the name of a luxurious room in a theater auditorium, usually designed for several people?
What national park located in the U.S. territory is primarily famous for its geysers?
Who designed the dome of St. Peter's Basilica in Rome?
Under what pseudonym did Jadwiga Helena Misel perform on stage?
With whom did Paul McCartney record the song "Say, say, say"?
Is the saxophone a woodwind or brass instrument?
What organ is affected by Hashimoto's disease?
Is the anaconda a venomous snake?
What is the name of the capital of South Korea?
Did Jacques Brel come from France?
What is the largest string instrument?
In what century did the so-called Tunguska disaster take place in the Siberian taiga?
Which city is the capital of Kenya, a country in East Africa?
What is the real name of Boleslaw Prus?
What was Shakespeare's Richard III willing to give up his kingdom for?
What is the title of Stefan Zeromski's novel, published in 1912, which recounts the events of the January Uprising?
Which English queen was the last empress of India?
Who is the author of the comedy "The Bourgeois Nobleman"?
What nationality was Grigory Saakashvili, the protagonist of the TV series "Four Armored and a Dog"?
What do we call a situation in which all or a significant part of one type of production is mastered by a single enterprise?
The tax office is an agency of which ministry?
Does the aorta come out of the heart or go into it?
What is the title of the Polish TV series in which the role of the brave Lieutenant Borewicz was played by Bronislaw Cieslak?
Which metal is used in light bulbs due to its very high melting point?
Mahatma Gandhi was an advocate for India's liberation from the sovereignty of which country?
What was the name of the Italian dynasty reigning in Milan from which the Polish Queen Bona descended?
In what year were the Nobel prizes first awarded?
What was the name of the last patriarch of the book of Genesis, the favorite son of Jacob and Rachel?
What is the name of the sausage that can be juniper, hunter?
In which city was Joan of Arc burned at the stake?
The protagonist of which novel by Stefan Żeromski is Marcin Borowicz?
In which city can you see Henryk Siemiradzki's canvas "Torches of Nero"?
The acronym of which international organization is OSCE?
Is the adder subject to protection in Poland?
Who is the author of the term "iron curtain"?
Which city is the capital of Kuwait?
What does a dresser do in the theater?
What is the name of the chemical reaction the carrying out of which requires the supply of heat energy?
In which competition was Jacek Wszoła the world record holder with 2.35m?
What was the name of the Polish pilot who was the first to fly the South Atlantic between Africa and South America in 1933?
Part of which sea is the Ionian Sea?
What is the name of the only movable bone of the human skull?
What is the name of the titular czardas princess from Imre Kálmán's operetta?
What was the name of the first political party in the Polish lands founded in 1882 by Ludwik Warynski?
Is Cymbeline an instrument or a game?
What is the name of the dessert made of eggs and sugar in the title of Roman Zaluski's comedy?
What does the Latin maxim "per aspera ad astra" mean?
What military rank did Horace Nelson have?
What is the name of the high school graduation exam?
Which U.S. state has the largest area?
They have come to Bethlehem and are playing leapingly to the Child - who is it about?
In which century did a direction in painting called Tashism develop?
On which ocean are the Seychelles located?
What is the name of the largest lake in Europe?
In which city did the Commander-in-Chief Tadeusz Kosciuszko proclaim the National Uprising Act?
How many satellites does Venus have?
Which Polish king wrote beautiful letters to his wife?
In which U.S. state does the highest peak in North America rise?
Where is Trajan's column located?
What was the name of Maciej Boryna's son from Wladyslaw Reymont's "Peasants"?
What three-letter acronym was used to refer to gas stations in communist Poland?
How do you describe an artist in whose work the sea is the main motif?
Do dolphins breathe atmospheric air?
What is the name of a quinine-containing carbonated beverage?
What was the name of an ancient war device used to throw stones?
What is the Polish name of the city of Kaliningrad?
If two different bulbs are connected in series is the current flowing in each bulb equal or different?
What do we call a state characterized by the abolition of the effect of gravity?
In what year did Valentina Tereshkova make, as the world's first woman, a space flight in orbit around the Earth?
What is the name of a cake baked on a spit?
What is the name of the science of God?
Do the Carpathian Mountains lie entirely in Poland?
"To the forefathers for glory, to the brothers for encouragement" - on the pedestal of which Krakow monument were these words engraved?
What is the name of the resin of Tertiary conifers that can be found on the seashore?
What was the name of the German battleship that self-drowned in Montevideo Bay in December 1939 to avoid capture by the Allies?
What is the name of a navigational instrument used to measure the distance traveled by a ship?
Who lived earlier: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart or Johann Sebastian Bach?
Who became president of Telewizja Polska SA after Wieslaw Walendziak?
What was the name of the Gdansk astronomer Hevelius?
Who was the commander of the Russian army at the Battle of Borodino?
The authorities of which country reside in Beirut?
In Poland, what is the title of the chairman of the Sejm presiding over the session?
What is the name of a theatrical performance in which the content is conveyed without the mediation of speech, using gestures?
Which newspaper's editor-in-chief was Alexander Kwasniewski in 1984-1985?
Which order did Father Peter Skarga belong to?
What is the name of a small four-string Hawaiian guitar?
What is the name of the smurf who loves to look in the mirror?
The first of February is what day of the year?
What was the administrator of an ancient Persian province called?
Does Iceland belong to NATO?
What is the name of an orchestral introduction to an opera or a stand-alone concert piece usually of a programmatic nature?
In which Polish city was the International Festival of Intervision held?
In which field did Winston Churchill receive the Nobel Prize?
What are the names of the world's largest invertebrates?
What is the name of the white weapon applied to the barrel of a rifle and used for hand-to-hand combat?
On the territory of which modern state is Hrushevka, where Rejtan was born?
What characteristic of outward appearance distinguishes the protagonist of Edmund Rostand's drama Cyrano de Bergerac?
In which city was the largest ancient library located?
Who was King Ladislaus the Short to Prince Leszek the Black?
What is the name of the Slavic deity with four faces?
What are the pickles made of?
Who played the title role in Martin Scorsese's film "Taxi Driver"?
What is the name of the first letter of the Greek alphabet?
What was the name of a series of Soviet manned spacecraft designed to transport astronauts to orbital stations?
What is the name of the opera's first lady who plays leading roles?
Which city is the seat of Switzerland's parliament?
Which philosopher was the founder of "atomism"?
What is the name of Andrzej Zielinski's brother from the band Skaldowie?
From which comedy by Molière does this quote come: "The envious will die, but envy will remain"?
Which Iraqi city was built on a circular plan and was known as a circular city in the Middle Ages?
What was Heracles supposed to bring from the garden of Hesperides?
How much does an adult liver weigh - more or less than a kilogram?
What is the name of Ethiopia's capital?
What is the name of a Mediterranean medicinal perennial with a branching root that resembles a human figure?
What was the name of the pope who collected and organized church chants in the 6th century?
What is the slowest, steady gait of a horse called?
What nickname was used to describe King Richard I of England, one of the leaders of the Third Crusade?
What is the name given to the science of minerals, their formation, properties and occurrence in the Earth's crust?
Did the U.S. participate in World War I?
Ptolemy's theorem is a geometric theorem or one involving accelerated motion?
What is the name of the sign that raises the sound by half a tone?
In which city is the romantic comedy "Notting Hill" set?
What was the name of the general, commander of the first independent parachute brigade that fought at Arnhem?
What is the name of the branch of mechanics that studies the motion of material bodies under the influence of forces acting on them?
Who is the author of the 1881 painting. "Breakfast of rowers"?
What is the Polish title of the last book of the Pentateuch?
What was the name of the head of the Swedish government assassinated in February 1986?
What is the name of the landscape depicted in painting or graphics?
Who discovered the electron?
In what year did General Władysław Sikorski die?
Who was the leader of the National Socialist German Workers' Party (NSDAP)?
Is a picometer more or less than a meter?
In which country was a military formation called the Foreign Legion established in 1831?
What was the name of the small cushion placed underneath the gown, below the waist, in order to achieve a puffing out of the dress?
Do cereals belong to the grass family?
Did Ignacy Paderewski - an outstanding politician and piano virtuoso - compose at least one opera?
Give the Polish title of the film in the James Bond series that Madonna starred in.
In which city were doctors the first in Poland to perform a face transplant?
Which law allowed the bourgeoisie into the Diet for the first time?
What is the process of dissolution of rocks, mainly limestone, by surface water called?
Blood in the heart is pumped from the atria to the ventricles or vice versa?
What was the name of the square in the cities of ancient Rome, where people's meetings, courts, fairs were held?
Adam Cisowski is a character from which novel by Kornel Makuszynski?
Which large European island is called emerald or green?
Is Brittany a region located in France or the UK?
Did Ernest Hemingway receive the Nobel Prize for literature?
Did President Franklin Delano Roosevelt attend the Potsdam Conference in 1945?
What was the name of the golden bees that were used to decorate Napoleon I's coronation outfit?
What is the name given to the blowing of sand and dust by the wind from the ground (mainly in deserts)?
Is any natural number whose last digit is either 0 or 5 divisible by 5?
From which dynasty did Sigismund the Old descend?
Who had a cool bust in the song title of the band "Wolves"?
Are cedars coniferous trees?
What is the full name of Russia's parliament?
The right to stand for election is the passive or active right to vote?
According to Molière, the greater fool is the learned fool or the unlearned fool?
Which Austrian composer, who lived in 1732-1809 and is counted among the so-called Viennese classics, is the creator of the oratorios: "Creation of the World" and "Seasons of the Year"?
What is the name of the plantation of shrubs and fruit trees?
Which French composer created the operas "The Pearl Catcher" and "Carmen"?
On which animal should the skin not be divided?
In which century were the popes in the so-called Avignon captivity?
Which Chaplin film was a satire on Hitler's rule?
Who painted the painting "Battle of Grunwald" in 1878?
Which Italian singer launched the hit song "Boys Boys Boys Boys"?
What is the name of the saint whose death is depicted on the "Doors of Gniezno" from the second half of the 12th century?
Who was the court chronicler of Casimir the Just?
What is the name of the author of the series of novels whose protagonist is Harry Potter?
Who parodied Helena Mniszkówna's novel "Leper" in the work "On the lips of sin"?
What was the name of the Soviet Army until 1946?
Who invented and created the Muppets?
What was the name of a great German politician, chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany in 1949-63, a supporter of its integration into Western Europe?
What do we call the coexistence of organisms of separate species beneficial to both parties?
What is ten to the power of two?
How many towers does St. Mary's Church in Krakow have?
During which holidays are nativity plays presented?
How many legs does a hippopotamus have?
In which competition was Jozef Szmidt a world record holder and two-time Olympic gold medalist?
In which century did Vesuvius destroy Roman Pompeii and Herculaneum?
What is the name of Asia's longest river?
Do edible clams live in the Baltic Sea?
What was the name of the predecessor of the United Nations that existed before World War II?
Which ruler fought a battle with Margrave Hodon at Cedynia?
Who became the commander of the Home Army after the arrest of General Stefan "Grot" Rowecki?
What is the name of the mountain on which Moses received the tablets with the Ten Commandments?
Which city was captured in 410 by the Visigoths led by Alaric?
Which instrument did Phil Collins play when he was a member of the group "Genesis"?
Are the Great American Lakes freshwater or saltwater?
What do we call salts, usually sodium salts, of fatty acids?
The funeral of which hero ends the action of the "Iliad"?
Which musical instrument was used by the rat man from Hameln who led the rodents out of town in the Grimm brothers' fairy tale?
In which century did Emperor Caligula reign in Rome?
To whom in "The Doll" does Wokulski direct his love?
What is the name of a multi-purpose machine for harvesting crops, including cereals, beets and potatoes?
What is the common name for a species of beans with large white beans?
Which chemistry professor became president of Poland in 1926?
A buttonhole is a hole located in which part of the jacket?
In which Spanish city is the Reina Sofia Museum, where you can see Pablo Picasso's Guernica?
How many parts did the film story of the Kargula and Pawlak family consist of?
Does Switzerland belong to NATO?
Who is the author of the 1864 painting. "Sermons of Peter Skarga"?
Under which party did Bill Clinton win the 1992 U.S. presidential election?
Is there a marathon being organized in Poznan?
By which sea is the Spanish city of Barcelona located?
What is the name of the largest of the Society Islands, an archipelago located in the Pacific Ocean?
In what year did the so-called "Poznan June" take place?
What is the name of the narrow glass tube used to measure small amounts of liquid?
Finish: "What was, and is not, written in..."?
From the name of the state of which Asian country comes the name of the popular tea species - "Assam"?
Are there nest-building fish in nature?
What was the name of the author of the first Polish chronicle?
In what century did John Gutenberg construct the printing press?
Does electrocardiography record blood flow in the veins or currents in the heart muscle?
Is a truffle an aboveground or underground fungus?
Who wrote "Devajtis," "Czahary" and more than 30 other novels?
Which of the four evangelists were apostles?
What is the name of the red pigment contained in erythrocytes?
Has man ever reached the bottom of the Mariana Trench?
What is the name of the ethical doctrine that recognizes pleasure, enjoyment as the goal and highest good of man, and avoidance of unpleasantness as a condition of happiness?
Who is the composer of the ballet "Spartacus"?
Which mountains separate Spain from France?
What gives the Gummies superhuman strength?
What is the title of the novel by Boleslaw Prus, referring to the growing movement for women's equality in the late 19th century?
Who founded the Collegium Nobilium in Warsaw in 1710?
Give two names of Roosevelt, the 32nd president of the United States.
Which Hungarian composer is the author of the operetta "Countess Marica"?
Who is the composer of the opera "La Bohème"?
What was Jan Krzeptowski called?
What was the name of the dog that Nel - the heroine of Henryk Sienkiewicz's novel "In Desert and Wilderness" - got. "In the wilderness and in the wilderness"?
Within which European country is the Bishop's Forest located?
Is the guinea bird a starling or a parrot?
What calf sows two mothers?
From what is cinnamon obtained - from the bark, leaves or flowers?
On which river is the rowing race between the Cambridge and Oxford University eights held?
In which part of the human body is the wedge sinus?
Lisbon is the capital of which European country?
How many seconds is an hour?
Are Coca-Cola and Pepsi-Cola drinks from the same manufacturer?
Which elephants have bigger ears: Indian or African?
Which Polish pianist won first prize in the first International Chopin Competition after the war in 1949?
What do we call the science that deals with the qualitative and quantitative study of population, its structure, movements, development and statistics?
Which case answers the questions: "about whom? about what?"
From which city does paprika come?
What was the name of the leader and singer of the famous American rock band "The Doors," who died prematurely in 1971?
Who is the author of the novel "The Whole Sky Sentence"?
The maple leaf is the symbol of which country?
Who wrote a novel with social and rural issues entitled. "Cham?"
What rank in the Citizen's Militia did Wildcat, the hero of the comic strip, have?
In which ancient city was a shell court held annually between 487 and 417 B.C.?
Which singer's hit song is "Painted Doll"?
With the figure of which Danish fabulist is the Danish city of Odense associated?
In Christian churches, what is the part of the building housing the altar called?
Platonic solids are regular polyhedrons or pyramids?
One hundred grams of which fruit has more calories: watermelon or grapes?
What is the name of the intermediary between people who want to buy or sell securities on the secondary market?
What is another name for the cylinder-shaped hole in which the piston moves?
What was the name of the voluminous hooded wool coat worn by the Arabs?
Sailing on the Vistula from Warsaw to Gdansk, will we pass Torun or Grudziądz first?
Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile - in which of these countries is Spanish not an official language?
What other name is the lasso given?
The natural habitat of the oligopods is seas, rivers or tropical forests?
What was the country of Burkina Faso called until 1984?
What was the name of Napoleon Bonaparte's first wife?
Who was added to the ranks of the apostles after the death of Judas Iscariot?
What is the name of a computer input device that takes the form of a moving lever, mainly used in computer games?
Which Russian city is home to Mikhail Lomonosov University?
What is the name of the wooden doll that became a boy in Carlo Collodi's novel?
Mikhail Gorbachev was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1990.Was he the President of Russia or the USSR then?
In which province is the White Forest located?
In which village did Emperor Henry IV beg Pope Gregory VII to remove the curse?
By separating parts of which country was Bangladesh created?
What is the name of the uniform for hotel, restaurant, home service?
To which country does the island of Corsica belong?
What color are xanthophylls, pigments found in flowers and plants?
Who wrote the fairy tale entitled. "The Ugly Duckling?"
In which century did an expedition to Egypt under Napoleon I set out from France?
Please provide both of Bach's names.
Who is the author of the novel "Mass for the City of Arras"?
What was the name given to the night of June 29-30, 1934, when a series of political murders took place in Germany?
The representative of which direction in European painting was the French painter Eugene Delacroix?
What pseudonym did Henryk Sienkiewicz use?
What color was the revolution in Ukraine in 2004?
What do we call persistent atmospheric air pollution over areas of large cities and industrial districts?
What degree of relationship does Jan Englert have with Maciej?
"The Moscicki method is a method of producing which acid?
What is the recovery period from an illness called?
Is remission a periodic cessation of disease symptoms or an exacerbation of them?
In what year was the transistor invented?
In which country lies the Ngorongoro Crater, which is a natural zoo?
Which sport is designated by the acronym MTB?
What was the name of Jack and Plack's home village?
What is the plural of the word "man"?
In what century did Victor Hugo live?
In which constellation is the Pole Star located?
In which mountains does Siklawa waterfall hum?
What did Jesus turn into wine at Cana?
What is the name of the dense, parallel cracks in rocks, formed under pressure?
Which Catholic monastery owns the monastery on Monte Cassino?
Which film was the first to win 11 Oscars?
In what year was the "Declaration of the Rights of the Child" adopted by the United Nations?
In what year will a person who was born in 2011 turn 11?
Where was Frederic Chopin born?
Who is the author of "The Magician of Lublin," a play that Jan Szurmiej staged at the Warsaw Operetta?
Which African country was ruled by a dynasty descended, according to legend, from Israel's King Solomon?
In which American city did Al Capone operate?
From which continent does the quinoa originate?
Which painter is the author of the Renaissance painting "Sistine Madonna"?
Which great river flows through the Czech city of Prague?
In what year did Napoleon Bonaparte die?
What is the name of the sacred mountain of the Slavs, which the German chronicler Thietmar wrote about in the early 11th century?
What is the part of speech: one and a half?
A politician of which country was Agostino Casaroli?
What is the name of a four-electrode electron tube?
How many candles fit on a Hanukkah lamp?
What part of the Austrian crown was the halzer?
Which Kriegsmarine ship was sunk in May 1941 by the British fleet with the participation of the Polish destroyer "Piorun"?
Which sea does Romania have access to?
From what breast did the heart in the soldier's song Heart in a Backpack break out?
Is the hexadecimal system six or hexadecimal?
Which German composer lived between 1770 and 1827 and composed the Ninth Symphony?
Which actor played the role of James Bond in the movie "The World Is Not Enough"?
Do dolphins use infra- or ultrasound to communicate?
What is the name of a magnificent vessel used for brewing tea, originating in Tula?
Who from the government side signed the agreement in Szczecin in August 1980?
On which continent do mammoth trees occur in their natural state?
What was the name of the legendary founder and ruler of Krakow?
Did Genghis Khan create the Mongol Empire in the Middle Ages or in antiquity?
Do crabs live in Poland?
What color is neon?
Which city is home to the La Scala opera theater?
What was the name of the goddess of discord who threw a golden apple with the inscription "for the most beautiful"?
How many exchange offices does the Swiss Confederation consist of?
Within which country is the historical land called Kraina located?
What semicircular folding object, usually very ornate, is used for cooling?
What was the name of Don Quixote's steed?
What is the name of the main square of Gdansk's Old Town?
Is the Earth's distance from the Sun constant?
Which disease was the cause of the death of the Lady of the Camellias?
Which ruler was crowned in 1025 after Boleslaw the Brave?
Is a skibob a vehicle for moving on water or snow?
What piece by Modest Mussorgsky was recorded in its own rock version by the band "Emerson, Lake and Palmer"?
What is the name of the island, which was once a single state entity with mainland China, but has been an independent republic since 1949?
From which region of Spain does the lively, rhythmic dance - flamenco - come?
What was the name of the leading representative of European Romanticism, an English lord, the author of "Giaour"?
Does modern international law allow annexations?
What does the Latin word sanatio mean?
Is the pope elected by an assembly of bishops or cardinals?
Please provide the names of the two American actors who played the main male roles in the film "Sting."
What are the names of the fabric-sculptures made by the Polish artist Magdalena Abakanowicz?
In which country is the daily newspaper The Guardian published?
From which port did the Titanic set sail?
Harlem and the Bronx are neighborhoods of which city?
Which legendary island does Plato talk about in the dialogues "Timaios" and "Kritias"?
From which language does the word "hit" come?
In what year was the famous Gniezno Convention held?
What is the name for the period in Polish literature that immediately followed Romanticism?
How many horns did the felt hat called a bikorn have?
Did Wladyslaw Kozakiewicz set a world record at the Moscow Olympics?
For how many years did Alfred Nobel personally present prizes named after him?
The weeping wall is part of which temple?
Is the de volaille cutlet made from poultry or pork?
Who, besides mothers and wives, starred in the title of the TVP series?
Which party did Margaret Thatcher and John Major come from?
What was the name of the chronicler Kadlubek?
During the eruption of which volcano did the Roman writer and naturalist Pliny the Elder die?
Where was the decimal system and the digits called Arabic numerals used by the whole world today invented?
Whose name is the Ateneum Theater in Warsaw named after?
Does the larch shed its needles on the ground?
In what year did Austria-Hungary break up?
In which mountains does the Wielka Krokiew ski jump stand?
In poker, what is a hand of four identical cards called?
Which city was the capital of Brazil until 1960?
The trademark of which detective was a lollipop?
Which European Union country has the largest territory?
Which fruit grows on the willow tree when promises are unrealistic?
Wielka and Mała Rawka are the peaks of the Bieszczady Mountains or the Swietokrzyskie Mountains
The Ionian dialect used in antiquity is part of which language?
Who directed the movie "The Godfather"?
In which European city will the promenade La Rambla lead to Columbus' column?
Five weeks - how many days is that?
In which country was the Gustav Line, a system of German fortifications, built?
In which American city does the Statue of Liberty stand?
Which lake is the deepest in Poland?
What was the name of Russia's last emperor?
Minsk is the capital of which country?
Is Tokyo located on the same island as the Fuji volcano?
What was the name of the Polish director who created the "Three Colors" trilogy?
What is the name of the title character of Boleslaw Prus' novel "Pharaoh"?
In what year did the uprising in the Warsaw ghetto break out?
A wooden cubic cube weighs 8 kilos. How many kilos does a cube with an edge half as long weigh?
Hypokalemia is a low level of which element in the human body?
According to the Constitution, what is the supreme law of the Republic of Poland?
In what century was the microscope invented?
In which building in Warsaw did the Round Table deliberations begin?
Did Pablo Picasso use collages in his artwork?
What is the name of the international police organization created in 1923, which deals with cooperation between the police of different countries in the fight against certain crimes (e.g. drug trafficking, terrorism, money counterfeiting, art theft)?
Who sang the song "In the yellow flames of the leaves"?
Which writer is the creator of the Witcher character Geralt?
What is the name of the strait between the islands of Usedom and Wolin?
Who wrote the words: "Lithuania, my homeland"?
By which sea are the ports of Rotterdam, Hamburg located?
How many cervical vertebrae does the human spine have?
Which animal leaves behind a behemoth?
According to church tradition, who is the author of the Acts of the Apostles?
How many member states does the UN Security Council consist of?
Who was the Chief of State in 1918-22 and was appointed Marshal of Poland in 1920?
What is the name of the letter in which the court or prosecutor orders the prosecution of a fugitive defendant for whom a temporary arrest order has been issued?
Do cuttlefish have shells?
Which beetle did the Egyptians worship?
Journalists of which American newspaper exposed the Watergate scandal?
What is the name of the first Polish order established in 1705?
What falls in the saying after the poppy is planted?
The daughter of which king was Catherine Jagiellon?
Which Ukrainian pole vaulter was the first to overcome a height of 6 meters?
What is the name of a two-electrode, tube or semiconductor device that conducts electricity easily in one direction and poorly in the other?
Which female name appears in the chorus of Edyta Górniak's 1994 hit song?
How many years did Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart live?
What was the name of Mieszko I's second wife?
From which country does soccer player Cristiano Ronaldo hail?
What is the name of the device for inputting images into the computer: drawings, photographs, maps, etc...?
Who was the leader of the Free French during World War II?
Is the ocelot a predator?
How many axes of symmetry does an ellipse have?
In which country is the Great Pardubice horse race held?
In Poland, do local governments have the right to issue bonds?
What is the name of a small hand-powered rail vehicle?
In which state are Great Bear Lake and Great Slave Lake located?
In which city Muhammad was born
Where is the grave of General Wladyslaw Anders located?
From which continent did the Aborigines originate?
In what year was the "Universal Declaration of Human Rights" adopted by the United Nations?
On which sea is Jamaica located?
On which planet of the solar system are the Mariner Valleys located?
What was the name of the wife of King Amenhotep IV of Egypt?
In which movie does the song "Dumka na dwa serca" appear?
In which city is Kazimierz Wielki University located?
How many years is the term of office of the Riksdag?
What was the name of the physicist from Gdansk who invented the mercury thermometer?
In which city does the Colosseum, the Flavian amphitheater, rise?
What is the unanimous adoption of a resolution without a vote called?
What do the last words of the reluctant Christian emperor Julian Apostata, "Galilaee, vicisti!" mean?
A man with a low-motor disposition is a sanguinarian or a melancholic?
What is the gland responsible for insulin secretion?
In which country is the city of Marrakech located?
In which country is Sichuan province located?
What was the name of the French ruler, founder of the Capetian dynasty?
Which constitution was passed in Poland earlier: the March or April one?
How many pence did the British shilling consist of?
Whom did Militiades defeat at the Battle of Marathon?
What is the title of Lehar's operetta, whose heroine is a rich widow - Hanna Glawari?
How many horas were there, daughters of Zeus and Themis, depicted as personifications of the forces of nature?
What is the name of the least populated territory in Europe with its capital in Nuuk?
What do you call an adult who can't write or read?
An endoprosthesis is a prosthesis placed inside the body or outside?
What was the name of the Greek sun god?
What was the name of the American actor who played leading roles in the films: "Rebel by Choice", "East of Eden"?
Is a cyclist a motorcyclist or a bicyclist?
What is 3 to the third power?
Which genre of literature did Aesop create?
Who died from Dejanira's poisoned robe?
Which continent is inhabited by a bird named emu?
What was the name of the beautiful Egyptian queen for whose favor two great leaders of ancient Rome - Julius Caesar and Mark Antony - vied?
What is the name of the title character of Jack London's novel, a young sailor who, through hard work, became a famous, albeit unhappy, writer?
What is the devil's due when the Lord God gets a candle?
What was the name of the Spanish fleet sent to conquer England in 1588?
Which river is Poznań located on?
In what century was the Union of Poles in Belarus founded?
In tennis and soccer, what is the name for hitting the ball in flight before it hits the ground?
Is the Washington Post a weekly or daily newspaper?
Which poet, satirist, cabaret actor, and author of the lyrics to the song "Her Portrait" died in 1988?
In which city is Puccini's opera "Turandot" set?
In economics, how is the decline in the activity of economic life defined?
Where did the 1984 Summer Olympics take place, in which the Polish team did not participate?
What is the name of the view that explains the geological processes of past eras by analogy to those of today?
Boris Pasternak wrote a novel about the fate of the Russian intelligentsia in the pre- and post-revolutionary years. What is its title?
Lowelas - a title of British aristocrats or seducers?
What do we call the method of determining a person's identity by examining handprints?
What is the name of the decoration established in 1981 as a tribute to Warsaw insurgents?
On which cape is the Stefan Zeromski lighthouse and lighthouse museum located?
What was the symbol for the Fiat model known in Poland as a Maluch?
The sub-chancellor of which Polish king was the chronicler Janko of Czarnkow?
A slot machine moved by a lever on the side is otherwise known as a "one-armed...?
To which state did Szczecin belong between 1630 and 1713?
Who was the author of the radio play "Hello, I'm Nervous"?
What is the name of the device we used to connect to the Internet in the 1990s?
From which social stratum did the soldiers of the Chosen Infantry come?
What is the name of the alcoholic beverage served before a meal to stimulate appetite?
In Roman mythology, what was the name of the goddess of spring flowering?
What was the name of the Italian general, fighter for the liberation and unification of Italy, who lived from 1807 to 1882?
In which city did Irena Szewinska win her first Olympic gold medal?
On the highways of which European city can you drive the fastest?
What do we measure in volts?
In which province is the Bialystok Forest located?
In what year did Margaret Thatcher die?
What was the name of the journalist, TV sports reporter, promoter of the "Run for Health" campaign?
What function did Admiral Chester Wiliam Nimitz perform during World War II?
What is the name for a morbid tendency to steal, often small items of little value?
In what century was the first Council of Nicea held?
Who commanded the German troops at the Battle of Cedynia?
What is the name of the Polish desert near Olkusz?
In which battle did Henry II the Pious die?
According to medieval beliefs and folk tales, what were witches' rallies held on unforested mountain tops called?
Is glass a good conductor of electricity?
What was the name of the diplomat, the USSR's representative at the UN, later to become foreign minister, called "Mister Niet"?
What is the basic monetary unit in Japan?
Are ravens mono- or polygamous birds?
How many aircraft carriers did the Japanese lose in the Battle of Midway?
Grey Regiments is the underground name of which organization?
Which of the three bards lived to be 60 years old?
What do we call a decline in the price of securities?
What did the knights of the round table seek, according to legend?
What is the name of Tajikistan's capital?
The Tertiary is the first period of which era in Earth's history?
From which language does the abbreviation UFO originate?
How long does it take for light to reach Earth from the Sun?
Is a trapezoid a polyhedron?
The style under the name empire was a variation of which direction in art?
Is the gong a musical instrument?
What is the name of the largest venomous cobra?
Into which ocean do the largest rivers of the globe flow: Amazon, Congo and Mississippi?
What is the internal law of the Catholic Church called?
What is the name of Turkey's largest city?
Who is the author of the novel entitled. "The Plague?"
What is the extrusion of grooves in paper products at the point of bending called?
How many strings does a violin have?
Which band sang "Come, Mother, to the Oath"?
In what year was Stefan Żeromski born?
What used to be called a tutor and teacher of children in wealthy homes?
Which Puccini opera features the characters Baron Scarpia and Mario Cavaradossi?
Who created the oldest Slavic script called Glagolitic?
Is a bat a bird?
Are single-humped camels dromedaries or bactrians?
Who was the creator of Europe's largest National Library-like book collection, located in Warsaw in the 18th century?
Which city founded in 1255 by the Teutonic Knights is a Baltic port and shipbuilding center?
What is the name of the soup made from the blood of a duck or goose?
"Being of the word" means being engaged or married?
Which color is the alb?
What is the name of the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina?
What is the name of one of the French aviation pioneers, designer and pilot who in 1909 became the first to fly across the English Channel in an airplane of his own design?
Are Zielona Gora and Jelenia Gora in the same province?
In what year was Boleslaw Prus born?
In what century did Aristotle live?
In what century was the Kosice privilege granted to the nobility?
Does a person make vitamin C in the body?
How many spouses does each partner have in a monogamous marriage?
What is the name of the stones used to mark distances in ancient Rome?
Which Japanese city was the second atomic bomb dropped on?
Who is the author of the books "On the tracks of Smetka," "Herb na kraterze" and many others?
What was the name of the Greek goddess of victory?
What is the name of the direction in contemporary music that is a synthesis of elements of jazz and rock music?
How many married children did Queen Elizabeth I Tudor of England have?
What is the name of a rectangle that has all sides equal?
Is Nigeria an independent state?
New Brunswick is a province of which country?
In which province of Canada are 80% citizens of French origin?
What is the name of a security that evidences debt obligations entitling the borrower to a certain amount of interest and the return of the borrowed amount of money?
What is the name of the contemporary music festival that takes place in Warsaw every year?
What is the distance of the optical focus from the mirror or lens called?
In what age was Edgar Degas born?
Please complete the proverb: "The kettle has been drawn to the pot...".
The characters in which series are Stach, Hadziuk, Pietrek and Solejuk?
Which architectural style is represented by the Teutonic castle in Malbork?
The sum of five odd numbers is even or odd?
The troops of which country captured Smolensk in 1812?
What kind of a double-edged weapon is shaped like a bludgeon, often scored with sharp elements?
Who founded the philosophical school of the Stoics in Athens?
In what year was the Polish Red Cross founded?
In what century was St. Mary's Altarpiece made by Veit Stoss?
Is cholera a viral or bacterial disease?
Which planet in the solar system has the greatest mass?
What color is the background of the Danish flag?
Java, Basic and Ladino - which of these languages is not a programming language?
A consequence of which principle of dynamics is jet propulsion?
What was the name of the marshal who accepted the surrender of Nazi Germany on behalf of the USSR?
Is tango classified as a standard or Latin American dance?
How many ribs does a person have?
What language did the ancient Romans speak?
Which leader of the notorious Medellín drug cartel was shot dead by Colombian police in 1993?
Which Polish pianist was the winner of the 9th Fryderyk Chopin Competition?
Which Spanish painter who lived in the 18th and 19th centuries is the author of the graphic series "The horrors of war" and the painting "Saturn devouring his children"?
What was the best thing about the series "A Stake Greater Than Life" in Pigalle Square?
What is the name of the Egyptian goddess, wife of Osiris, mother of Horus?
Which two pieces of cutlery are on the road sign marking the restaurant?
Which Byron poetic novel features Leyla and Hasan?
Who is the author of the novel "Stone Tablets"?
What is the name of Africa's longest river?
Which animals were cubs in the title of Jaroslaw Żamojda's film?
Marcus Tullius Cicero, Roman speaker and philosopher, lived before or in our era?
How many divisors does each prime number have?
What is the name of the French island in the Mediterranean Sea where Napoleon Bonaparte was born?
What did St. Thomas the Apostle refuse to believe?
What is the name of an expression that is specific only to a language and cannot be literally translated into another language?
What is the name of the island that was the site of Napoleon I Bonaparte's exile after his first abdication in 1814?
Who is the author of the theorem, which we usually write: a to square + b to square = c to square?
Ignacy Jan Paderewski in 1919 served in the Polish government as minister of which ministry?
Which country was ruled by Tamara in the late 12th and early 13th centuries?
While acting in which comedy did Molière fall asleep on stage and die?
How many humps does a bactrian have?
What is the name of the layer of the Earth's atmosphere at an altitude of 20-35 km, which protects the Earth's surface from too much solar radiation?
In which European country is the city of Ghent located?
Is the Tasmanian devil a mammal or a reptile?
In which month is the traditional Dominican fair held?
Which continent does the baribal bear inhabit?
What was the name of the Inca knotted writing?
What color helmets are worn by soldiers who are part of the international peacekeeping force?
What do we call the cell formed when a male and female gamete combine?
How many foci does an ellipse have?
Who found the mysterious world on the other side of the mirror?
What is the phase of the Moon called when the side facing the Earth is unlit?
How many subway lines are there in Warsaw?
CEPiK stands for Central Register of Vehicles and who?
Is Bogotá, the capital of Colombia, a port city?
Which country is the writer Umberto Eco from?
What is the name of the branch of theology that deals with the knowledge of angels?
What artistic pseudonym did Grzegorz Ciechowski use?
In mathematics, what punctuation mark do we use to denote the concepts of strongman?
What continent does the potato come from?
In which series did Jerzy Kamas play the role of Wokulski?
In what year was the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen enacted?
What is the rosin used by violinists to rub strings made of?
What is the name of the territory that the U.S. purchased from Russia at the end of the 19th century?
In which country is Giuseppe Verdi's opera "Aida" set?
The result of which action is the product?
Is mistletoe a tree?
What nationality were the first white settlers in South Africa?
How many countries are in the Antilles - more or less than eight?
Is the frogfish a representative of fauna or flora?
What does the Latin phrase "ab ovo" mean?
Antoni Patek, a pioneer in the production of accurate watches in Switzerland, was a participant in which uprising?
Which German general was appointed commander of the Afrika Korps in 1941?
Which saint's activities are linked to the Italian city of Assisi?
Who composed the music for the musical "West Side Story"?
In what century was La Scala, Milan's opera theater, built?
Is Italian a set of vegetables or fruit?
Which Polish king led the Thirteen Years' War against the Teutonic Knights?
Is "forest scabious" a fancy name for nettle?
Which band recorded the albums: "Revolver", "Help", "Let it be"?
Who invented the revolver?
Was Boleslaw the Brave crowned king of Poland at the Congress of Gniezno?
What connects the hand to the forearm?
What is the name of the special, grooved bowl used for dough or poppyseed?
Did Camelot sit at the royal round table?
How many years did the Achaeans besiege Troy after Helen was kidnapped by Paris?
Who painted the painting "Night Watch" in the 17th century?
What is the name of a voluminous skirt in the form of a bell, pinned up with hoops?
Who led the team of painters who created the Racławice Panorama?
At what age did women in Saudi Arabia gain active and passive voting rights?
Which means of transportation did the participants in the Peace Race race with?
What was the Kingdom of Poland, formed after the Congress of Vienna, otherwise known as?
What is the name of the river in France, a right tributary of the Seine, on which two major battles took place during World War I?
Do sperm whales have teeth?
The prominent Polish mathematician Stefan Banach worked at the university in which city?
In medieval Poland, what was the name of the official in charge of the ruler's stable?
What was the name of the magnate party of the Czartoryskis, who tried to carry out reforms in the Republic in the 18th century?
Who is the author of the book "Influenza is rampant in Naprawa"?
Is a pantsuit a men's or women's garment?
Which of the empires of antiquity were ruled by Cyrus, Darius and Xerxes?
What do we call a person who speaks several languages?
What is the name of the device used to record and play VHS tapes?
In what year did Henryk Sienkiewicz die?
What is the title of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's great unfinished work?
What was the name of the last Polish president in exile?
Honorius Balzac married 4 months before his death. What was the name of the Polish noblewoman he married?
From which European country did the ancestors of the Boers called Africans mostly come?
Which Polish mountains are associated with the stories of Liczyrzepa?
What was the name of the Chinese political and state activist who shaped the cult of his person and initiated the "Cultural Revolution"?
In what century was slavery abolished in the U.S.?
What is the main prize at the Russian Song Festival in Zielona Gora?
Is there a museum of Boleslaw Prus or Stefan Zeromski in Nałęczów?
Which country does Sicily belong to?
Who was Ladislaus the Short to Casimir the Great?
The district of which city is Brzeszczekowice, where there is a column in honor of the Three Emperors and where the border of the three empires was located?
The unit of which quantity in the SI system is the pascal?
What is the name of the solar system's most distant planet from the Sun?
The national team of which country usually begins the march of the national teams at the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games?
In which party game does soap appear, that is, a rectangular tile without marked points?
How many Brandenburg concertos did Johann Sebastian Bach compose?
Which director's wife was Giulietta Masina?
The abbey of which order is located in Tyniec?
From which part of "Dziady" by Adam Mickiewicz come the words: "whoever has not touched the earth once, can never be in heaven"?
In which city is the Auschwitz-Birkenau camp located?
In what century did the first Crusade take place?
What is the name of Italy's automobile thoroughfare of international tourist importance, connecting Milan, Rome and Naples?
From which country did the bolero dance originate?
What nationality was the prominent composer Hector Berlioz?
Is basalt a magmatic or sedimentary rock?
In which suburban town did the preparations for the Round Table take place?
Playing which instrument was Jimmy Hendrix famous for?
What is the name of the public prosecutor in a criminal trial?
Ramonesque is the name of a bird inhabiting the forests of the Amazon basin or a type of jacket?
In what year did the United States of America join World War I?
In what century did Christopher Columbus make his last visit to America?
How many pieces does the mendel have?
What is the name of the tissue that conducts assimilates in a plant?
Which epoch in Earth's history was older: the Bronze or the Stone?
What is the name of the Polish composer who wrote the music for Krzysztof Kieslowski's film triptych "Three Colors"?
Who is the patron saint of drivers and travelers?
Who invented dynamite?
Who represented Poland in 1996 at the Eurovision Song Festival in Oslo?
What is 50 minus 27?
In which city was the Air Force Museum established in 2011?
Is the number -5 a natural number?
Under which presidency did Jozef Pilsudski stage a coup?
Is the turniura a part of men's or women's attire?
On which Mediterranean island is the city of Syracuse located?
In what century did the expedition of the thousand take place?
In which century did King Sigismund the Old reign?
In which province is Piotrków Trybunalski located?
Is the melting point of mercury higher or lower than zero degrees Celsius?
Diamond is an allotropic variety of which element?
What is the name of an ailment that occurs on ships, resulting from a lack of coordination between the sense of sight and the sense of balance?
Is a stent a type of endovascular implant or an artificial upper limb?
Where did John Fitzgerald Kennedy die?
Which TV show was created by Jerzy Wasowski and Jeremi Przybora?
What questions are answered by the first case of declension i.e. the denominator?
Which religion is dominant in Pakistan?
In which province is the Wolin National Park located?
At what age did the car first reach 100 km/h?
Did the USSR participate in the Korean War?
In which province is Jelenia Gora located?
What is the phenomenon created by the refraction and deflection of sunlight in raindrops called?
What was the name of the woman from Jerusalem who gave the handkerchief to Jesus?
What is sake made of?
In what year did Churchill and Roosevelt sign the so-called Atlantic Charter?
The Kalevala is the national epic of which country?
What was the name of the legendary German alchemist who allegedly sold his soul to the devil?
For how many weeks was Westerplatte defended in September 1939?
Which famous novel was William Golding's debut?
Is Geneva the capital of a French-speaking or German-speaking canton?
What does the Latin "Homo faber" mean?
Who was the first to construct a piano?
Cook Strait separates the North Island from the South Island of which country?
Warwick is the largest medieval castle in the British Isles lying in England, Scotland or Northern Ireland
What country used war gases for the first time during World War I?
Is the diagonal of a square longer than its side?
Are Finland and Sweden members of the European Union?
Which church dominates in Greece?
Who is the author of "Gulliver's Travels"?
At the time of the founding of the Covenant of the Center, who became its first chairman?
Which river is Suwalki located on?
At what age did Boleslaw Prus finish writing "The Doll"?
In which town in northern France (Picardy), in the department of Somme, on the Somme River, is there an archaeological site from the Paleolithic era?
What is the common name for the Fiat 126p?
Which country occupies the northernmost part of the Scandinavian Peninsula?
Which news program aired at 7:30 p.m. in communist Poland?
How long was Bob Beamon's record-breaking long jump at the Mexico City Games?
Which planet has the shortest circulation time around the sun?
What is the tangent of the zero angle?
What does the sculpture of Venus de Milo standing in the Louvre hold?
A monument to which great Pole stands in Washington, D.C.'s Lafayette Square?
What was the name of one of the creators of television, the English inventor (1888-1946) of, among other things, night vision (in 1926)?
Which nationality makes up the majority of Kosovo's population?
What deed do we catch the thief in while stealing?
Who developed the steam locomotive?
What is the name of the Greek muse of tragedy?
Who was the host of the TV show "Fatherland-Polish"?
In which country are the Copts the most numerous group of Christians?
Is a cube a prism?
Please translate: "to be or not to be"?
Who wrote the book "Fifteen Year Old Captain"?
What was the name of the British duo that included David Stewart and Annie Lennox?
Who heads the department of higher education?
Did Polish tenor Jan Kiepura act in movies?
Who won the battle of Trafalgar?
After which world war was Estonia founded?
Who sentenced Antigone to death for burying Polynices?
Do aurochs live in Poland?
The biggest star of which band was Freddie Mercury?
Did the battle in which Pyrrhus was victorious take place before our era or in our era?
What is the name of our mineral raw material for smelting ferro-alloys?
A craftsman who makes and repairs small firearms is...?
Which sport did Jerzy Kulej, Olympic gold medalist, practice?
The Apocalypse of St. John is a didactic, historical or prophetic book?
Which geometric figure can be Pythagorean, pythagorean, Indian, Egyptian?
Which President of the National Bank of Poland participated in the denomination of the zloty in 1995?
How many so-called runners does a chess player have?
Which word in the sentence: "There was a bus in front of the school" is a preposition?
In which country does Stonehenge, a megalithic stone structure erected during the Neolithic period, stand?
"Your Style" is a weekly, biweekly, monthly or quarterly?
What was the name of the Turkish leader at the head of the national movement that overthrew the sultanate in 1922 and turned Turkey into a republic?
In what century did Conrad of Mazovia bring Teutonic knights to Polish lands?
Are home-bred bullheads parakeets, aquarium fish or ferns?
What is the name of a stylized human or animal face applied to the face or head, modeled in wood or other material?
Do most drivers in the world drive on the right or left side of the road?
What was the name of the creator of the Soviet spacecraft "Vostok" who lived in 1907-66?
By which sea is Varna located?
What was the name of the king of Poland, who was also king of Sweden from 1592-99?
Which of the three musketeers was the count?
Who composed the operas "Khovanshchina" and "Boris Godunov"?
What is the name of the semi-precious stone, which is a purple variety of quartz?
Which Austrian politician, statesman was secretary general of the UN?
Which international organization was created in the United States in 1943 with the motto of providing economic aid to the people of countries devastated by war, and disbanded in 1947?
What sports did David Beckham play professionally?
Who is the director of the "Decalogue" film series?
On which continent was the so-called "war for saltpeter" fought in the 19th century?
In what year was the Second Program of Polish Television established?
Can a GPS navigation system work properly at night?
Are hops an annual or perennial plant?
In which city can you visit the Stained Glass Museum?
In which city is the Racławice Panorama currently on display?
In what time does light travel a distance of two light years?
Who was the founder of Vilnius University?
Chrysography is the art of painting with ink, blacking or liquid gold?
Where can you get a short-term loan against your valuable possessions or securities?
What is the name of the French Mediterranean coast?
From what and Solomon will not pour?
Was Molière also an actor?
Which Pole surveyed South Australia and Tasmania in 1839-43?
Which film is shorter: the one that lasts 1 h 50 min or the one that lasts 100 minutes?
Which artist was the founder of the theory of pure form?
What is the name of a fixed or portable hunting stand several meters high, consisting of a platform, a bench and a ladder?
Who is the director of the film "Va banque"?
Is the tawny owl protected in Poland?
In which century was the great plague epidemic that killed 1/3 of Europeans spread?
What do we call the process of saturating a liquid with a gas?
What is a tip or small donation called in the Middle East and North Africa?
How many people lived in Biskupin - about a hundred, a thousand or five thousand?
Is Lombardy a region of France or Italy?
Who was victorious in the battle that took place at Legnica in 1241 between the Polish and Tatar armies?
What is the name of the footwear with a thick sole used to elevate actors performing in ancient theater in Greece and Rome?
What was the name of the British aristocrat, military officer and politician who commanded the troops of the anti-Napoleonic coalition at the Battle of Waterloo?
What is the name of one of the seven hills of Rome on which the palace of the President of Italy stands?
In which city was the 19th-century philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer born?
What is a type of cheese called tofu made from?
What are the names of the long, narrow bays, formed by glacial action, that characterize Norway's coastline?
In which province is Kolobrzeg located?
What are the points with equal temperature values on the weather map called?
Did UN troops participate in the 1950-53 Korean War?
Does the truffle fruiting body grow underground?
Can it be percentage, life, profit or used for walking?
What is the name given to compounds of oxygen with other elements?
In what year did World War I break out?
What is the minimum age for a person to drive a streetcar?
What is the name of the hormone abbreviated LTH?
What is the unit of electric current called?
Which U.S. president imposed sanctions on Poland for martial law?
What was the name of the monster with many heads that grew back after being beheaded?
Who was crowned king of the Kingdom of Poland in 1829?
Do naked-seed plants have fruit?
What was the smallest administrative division in 1954-72?
In folk dances, what is the name for hitting a heel against a heel in a jump?
Athos and Porthos were the names of two musketeers - and what was the name of the third?
Which Greek mathematician around 600 BC discovered the phenomenon of attraction of light bodies by rubbed amber?
Who is the founder of psychoanalysis?
Which eight-thousander was conquered first?
What is the name of the part of the Brent district of London with a huge soccer stadium, the traditional venue for the FA Cup?
In which country was the war that the hippies protested against in 1968?
Which country waged war in 1935-36 and then occupied Ethiopia until 1941?
How many books about King Maciu wrote Janusz Korczak?
Was a unit of length called the mile used in ancient times?
A representative of which literary direction was Norwid?
Which country was ruled by the Savoy dynasty between 1860 and 1946?
Is the number of books of the Bible according to Catholics and Protestants the same?
Which French commander in World War I was a marshal of France, Great Britain and Poland?
The author of how many symphonies is Ludwig van Beethoven?
What instrument did Orpheus play?
What is the name of a cuboid whose walls are squares?
What is the name of Poland's highest military decoration?
What organ in mammals is where the ear canals, respiratory tract and digestive tract intersect?
The dictator of which country was Fidel Castro?
What is the name of the point opposite the zenith, located on the invisible part of the celestial sphere?
Which country is home to the largest national park in the world?
What do we call a wood processing plant where logs are mechanically sawn into lumber and processed?
Which country is famous for its tulips and windmills?
What is the name of the thin-skinned footwear with a strongly elongated nose, worn in Europe in the 12th-15th centuries?
Is the jellyfish a unicellular or multicellular animal?
What is the name of the horn mass from sea turtle carapaces?
Can a toothfish fly?
When did Kievan Rus adopt Christianity?
What is the name of one of the staple crops in world agriculture grown in highly irrigated fields?
What is the name of the dye necessary for the process of plant photosynthesis?
In which section of the digestive tract does digestion begin?
To which goddess were the geese kept on the Capitol sacrificed?
Famous works of this writer are "The Doll" and "Pharaoh" - who is it about?
Which dynasty reigned in Poland until 1370?
Which political activist in 1929-30 founded and was editor-in-chief of "Gazeta Polska"?
How many minutes does a half of a soccer match last?
On which continent is the republic of Malawi located?
Which Russian naturalist, philosopher and poet was born in 1711 and a university in Moscow was named after him?
The opponent of which detective was the evil genius Professor Moriarty?
How did the Amazons mutilate themselves in order to pull the bowstring better?
What is the name of the highest-ranking diplomatic post?
What kind of music was popularized by Bob Marley?
What was the title of the most distinguished journal of the royal reform camp, which came out in 1765-85 and was edited by Ignacy Krasicki, among others?
Who constructed the glider?
Do bryophytes belong to the plant or animal kingdom?
What is the highest peak in the Gorce Mountains?
How many players does a soccer team consist of?
In which athletic discipline is Tomasz Majewski successful?
What did Jankiel play in "Pan Tadeusz"?
Did Gall Anonim write the chronicle of Poland in Latin or Polish?
Who was the judge in the mythological dispute over the apple of discord?
Is Poland's largest lake - Sniardwy - more than 100 km² in size?
The capital of which country is Ulaanbaatar?
Is field field hockey an Olympic discipline?
What was the name of the hero of Verne's novel, who bet that he would circumnavigate the world in 80 days?
Which painter created the "Self-Portrait with Bandaged Ear"?
What is the name of a substance that speeds up or delays a chemical reaction, but is not itself part of the final products?
What name did Andrzej Kmicic take in an effort to hide his identity tainted by his collaboration with the Radziwills?
Did Mickiewicz and Goethe meet in person?
What is the first period of the Paleozoic called?
From which country did the cancan originate?
What is the word derived from Czech for the storage space in an apartment under the ceiling?
What was the name of the big U.S. bank whose failure in October 2008 caused the financial crisis?
What was the compact formation of heavily-armed infantry used by the ancient Greek and Macedonian armies called?
What is the name of the international language created in 1887 by Ludwig Zamenhof?
How many times in a year does the Earth orbit the Sun?
What is the name of the action to restore the monetary unit to its former value?
What is the moving part of the trombone pipe called?
What color was the submarine from the movie and the song by the group "The Beatles"?
What is the name of the city in Bavaria where music festivals are held annually in the theater erected by Richard Wagner?
Through which lake does the Rhine River flow?
Does South Korea border China?
Doctor Judym is a character from which novel by Stefan Żeromski?
What is a stopwatch used to measure?
Whose name is the Old Theater in Krakow named after?
What color was the statue of the bullock deity worshipped by the Israelites?
What is the title of Mikhail Bulgakov's novel, which combines the image of post-revolutionary Russia with biblical and Faustian motifs?
Is the cosine function the inverse of the sine function?
Is Mickey Mouse a he or a she?
By which sea is Eritrea located?
In which century did the three partitions of Poland take place?
In which European city did the subway first start?
The capital of which country is Ankara?
In which city is the famous Hermitage museum located?
What was the name of Kurosawa, the famous Japanese director?
Which country is called Suomi in its language?
The three basic principles of drama construction are unity of time, place and what else?
From which city did St. Thomas, the 13th-century philosopher and theologian, come?
In which country in the 1950s .did the so-called Makkartism develop in domestic politics?
Which country's army did Napoleon smash at Jena in 1806?
The plot of which comedy is partly set in Shufland?
Is cypress a coniferous or deciduous tree?
What does the Latin saying "medice cura te ipsum" mean?
What is the name of the circular hole in the center of the iris of the eye?
After which world war was the League of Nations established?
What is the name of the snow figure and the big foamy sea wave?
In which province is Reda located?
What was the name of the third U.S.-made space shuttle?
In what year did Krzysztof Kamil Baczynski, the leading poet of the wartime generation, die?
In which city is the UN headquarters located?
Which Polish uprising was led by Romuald Traugutt?
What is the name of Israel's foreign intelligence service, established in 1951?
What is the name of the second source stream of the Vistula besides the Black Vistula?
What are the machine components that support rotating shafts or axles and reduce friction called?
From which dynasty was King Charles I of England descended?
Which Shakespearean character did Leonardo DiCaprio play in 1996?
Complete the proverb: "hand of hand..."?
What is the name of Sicily's highest peak and volcano?
What was the name of the men's short-legged sports pants worn in the past that were fastened below the knees?
Which ancient ruler was to guard against the ides of March according to the oracle?
What three-letter acronym does the International Ski Federation subscribe to?
What was the pseudonym of actor Louis Napoleon Sosnovsky?
What is the name of a semiconductor device with at least three electrodes that has the property of amplifying electrical signals?
What do we call butterfly larvae with a segmented, soft, elongated body with a distinct head?
The author of which Russian novel refused to accept the Nobel Prize?
What is the opposite of sympathy?
Which city is the headquarters of the WHO?
What military rank did Michal Wolodyjowski have in the last part of Sienkiewicz's trilogy?
What was the name of the father of Ophelia, the beloved of Hamlet in Shakespeare's tragedy?
Which country did Warsaw Pact troops enter in 1968?
What was the inscription on the cross of Jesus?
How many horses was the convertible harnessed with?
In what year of the last century was penicillin discovered?
What is the name of the stone statues of women with a cup or horn in their hands placed on barrows in the Eurasian steppes?
Which party did Helmut Kohl come from?
Whose name were the Polish national uprising, Australia's highest mountain and one of Australia's national parks named after?
What is the name of the Negro American instrument, a ragged chordophone with a round membrane-covered resonance box with a long neck and 4-9 strings?
Africa is mostly in the eastern or western hemisphere?
In which city was the Georges Pompidou National Cultural Center established?
Who published the bible in print in the mid-15th century?
Does Iraq border Kuwait?
Every how many years is the World Cup held?
Who on behalf of the Third Reich signed the act of unconditional surrender on May 8, 1945?
What were the names of the old rowing and sailing boats used by the Zaporozhian Cossacks?
Who is the author of the passionate book entitled. "Aquarium," describing work and training in the Soviet GRU?
What was the name of Stefan Zeromski's daughter?
What was the name of the founder of the first modern theory of evolution?
What are the titled parts of "Lalka" narrated by Ignacy Rzecki?
What was the name of the French painter Gauguin?
Of how many parts (songs, books) is "The Odyssey" composed?
What is the name of the international jazz music festival held annually in Warsaw?
From which continent do the Masai originate?
What is the common name of the Order of St. Paul the First Hermit, founded in 1225?
What is the name of the carrot root dye?
What is the common word for a bunch of flowers and the smell of wine?
Does silver float in mercury or sink?
How many shillings was the pound sterling by 1971?
Was tithing a tribute paid to the church or to the king?
What was the name of the group of reptiles, of which only crocodiles are still alive today, and included, in addition, the extinct thecodonts, dinosaurs and pterosaurs; they appeared in the Permian?
Which river delta has depressions in Poland?
What is the name of an expression consisting of two or more words that are close or synonymous?
Which American cosmonaut stood first on the surface of the moon?
What is the name of the main character in Juliusz Słowacki's drama "Kordian"?
What is the name of the currency of the U.S., Australia, Canada and New Zealand?
Who is the author of "100 Figures Who Had the Greatest Impact on the History of Mankind"?
Which muse was the mother of Orpheus?
From which plant is opium obtained?
Which German emperor established the Polish archbishopric in Gniezno?
In which country was the Order of St. Stanislaus established in 1765?
Who was Maximilian Robespierre by profession, one of the Jacobin leaders?
What car produced at FSO hit Polish roads in 1978?
In which city in Poland is the Actor Song Review held?
Resin for industrial purposes is obtained from coniferous or deciduous trees?
Please provide the chemical symbol for oxygen.
What name derived from an archipelago of islands in the Atlantic Ocean is given to shorts that reach almost to the knees?
Which king moved the capital from Krakow to Warsaw?
Is a frog an amphibian or a reptile?
How old is Christmastime?
How many years does it take to attend a Polish elementary school?
"Stars and stripes," or stars and stripes, is the name of the flag of which country?
Which university was founded earlier: Warsaw or Vilnius?
Was actress Ingrid Bergman a compatriot of director Ingmar Bergman?
At the Battle of Yellow Waters in 1848, were the Poles or the Cossacks victorious?
What is the name of the director, creator of the film "Venus in the Bath"?
What is the name of an individual who has no natural pigments (pigments)?
Which country does the "Silk Road" lead to from Europe?
What is the name of the device used to display text or graphic information from the computer on the screen?
Do marmots living in Poland go into winter sleep?
Is andantino a faster or slower tempo than andante?
Rapid economic growth, recovery we call a crash or boom?
What is the name of Mai's bee's best friend?
What was Al Capone convicted of?
What is the name of the New York City neighborhood located between Hudson Bay and Long Island?
What was the name of the American aviator who was the first to fly solo across the Atlantic in 1927?
A resident of the Dominican Republic is...?
Was the construction of the Great Wall of China started before or after Christ?
What is the name of the singer of the band Bajm?
What nickname did the characters of the TV series "Four Armored and a Dog" give to their tank?
Was Poseidon the brother or son of Zeus?
Istanbul, Byzantium, Constantinople - are these the names of the same city?
In what century did the Thirteen Years' War take place between Poland and the Teutonic Order?
Which well-known Polish politician is the author of the book "Faith and Wine"?
What is the name of a two-humped camel?
How is the representative of the country's original population defined as opposed to the later immigrant population?
Who became Russia's first president?
What is the name of the circuit that converts a signal from the form used by a computer to a form convenient for long-distance transmission?
What is the name of the Christmas Eve dish made from wheat with poppy seeds and honey?
What is the name of the Italian Baroque composer who composed, among other things. 4 violin concertos dedicated to the four seasons of the year?
In what year did the British transatlantic steamer "Titanic" sink?
Near which island did the Greeks defeat the Persians in a famous naval battle in 480 BC?
The singer of which band was Kurt Cobain?
Where was the seat of the Greek gods located?
Ophthalmology is the science of defects and diseases of what organ?
What was the name of the English corsair ennobled by Queen Elizabeth II and elevated to the dignity of a vice admiral?
Who, shooting from a slingshot, killed the giant Goliath?
Is bamboo a grass or a tree?
What was the name of the 16th century Turkish sultan nicknamed the Magnificent?
Which part of the body does the balaclava cover?
Can hummingbirds walk?
Which party in the commission of inquiry into the Rywin Affair was represented by Renata Beger?
What coat of arms did Mr. Zagloba seal himself with?
In which athletic discipline did Wladyslaw Komar win an Olympic gold medal?
What was the name of the temple dedicated to all the gods in ancient Rome?
Which king succeeded Henry de Valois on the Polish throne in 1575?
Was American physicist of Italian descent Enrico Fermi a Nobel Prize winner?
Which Roman emperor before suicide said: "What artist dies in my person"?
Who was the first host of the Polish version of the quiz show "Va Banque"?
Is Kenya a kingdom, a republic or a federation?
Are lynx and wildcat the names of the same animal?
What is a mixture of aggregate, cement and water called?
From which temple does the Pope give the Urbi et Orbi?
What was the Polish theatrical title of the film "Dirty Dancing" that brought Partick Swayze recognition?
"Young Lions" is a novel by which American writer?
Are the popular pistachios fruits or seeds?
In what century was the Suez Canal built?
What is the name of the material that is an allotropic variety of elemental carbon?
Which physical quantity is measured in meters per second squared?
What is the name of the era in the history of the earth, divided into 6 periods: Cambrian, Ordovician, Silurian, Devonian, Carboniferous, Permian?
In which work did Jan Kochanowski describe the Tartar invasion of Podolia?
What was the name of the Italian traveler who reached China in the 13th century?
What shape does a window on a ship usually have, called a porthole?
According to the saying what is not for the dog?
Is the village chief appointed by the mayor or elected by the residents?
What is the name of the most famous band in the history of rock and roll, originating from Liverpool?
Which of the great chiefs of antiquity became famous for using battle elephants in the war against Rome, which he led across the Alps?
Is Boleslaw Prus the author of the novella titled. "Antek"?
Finish the proverb: "When you come among the crows, you must caw like...".
Which grain is used to make pearl groats?
What is the name of the star that is closest to Earth?
What part of speech are the words "and", "and" and "here"?
What is the name of the comet that visits our solar system regularly every 76 years?
Which dynasty took the French throne after the Valois?
How many planets are in our solar system?
What was the name of the 1980s rock group led by Grzegorz Ciechowski?
Pluralia tantum are nouns only plural or singular?
In what century did the troops of the First Crusade capture Jerusalem?
What was the name of the American jazz artist Fitzgerald?
What do the stars on the U.S. flag symbolize?
Jan Kochanowski is a Polish poet of the Renaissance period. Who was Andrzej Kochanowski, the author of the first Polish translation of the "Aeneid," to Jan?
Which district of London is the center of the financial system, home to many financial, stock and currency exchanges?
Into which sea does the Rhine drain?
What is the name of the longest tributary of the Oder River?
How much is one to the power of three?
Where is the annual French International Tennis Championships held?
What is the name of the unit of currency of India, Nepal and Pakistan?
Which planet in our solar system was discovered last?
Euphemics is a branch of medicine or zoology?
Is a banjo a plucked string instrument or a wind instrument?
At what age did sculptor Jan Wnęk take his first flights on his own hang glider?
Caracals are a breed of which animals?
Is Szrenica a peak in the Tatras, Beskids, Karkonosze or Bieszczady Mountains?
What was the title of the 1960s TV series whose main character was the captain of the starship Enterprise?
What was the name of the chemist who disproved the phlogiston theory?
What are the names of the low-growing peoples inhabiting the forests of Equatorial Africa - nomads, gatherers and hunters?
Goggleback is the common name of which bird?
What else do we call a laugus-dyngus?
In which state does the Grand Canyon of the Colorado River extend?
Which poet was born in Warsaw in 1915 and published a book of poems "Conscience moved" in 1990?
In what century did the Gothic style begin to develop in architecture?
What is measured in millibars?
Who directed the film "Passion"?
What is the jeweler's measure of mass equal to 0.2 g called?
Which country does the group of aging directors in the movie "Blue Like the Black Sea" go to on a trip?
In which German city does the late Baroque Zwinger palace complex stand?
In which city is Frederic Chopin buried?
How many colors does the flag of Bangladesh consist of?
What is the name of the unit of measurement of the plane angle, used mainly in nautical navigation, equal to 1/32 of a full angle?
Which museum houses Hammurabi's stele, on which his code was engraved?
What is the name of the area at the mouth of the forked river?
How often is the Sabbath celebrated?
What is the name of the tower in Tokyo similar to the Eiffel Tower?
What is the name of the tendon that connects the triceps calf muscle to the heel bone?
The capital of which country is Islamabad?
What is the name of the outer layer of the Earth's globe, which includes the crust and the upper layer of the mantle? The word comes from the Greek.
Which field of science did the Brain Tumor deal with?
Who was the king of Troy during the war with the Greeks?
A monument to a small insurgent in Warsaw reminds you of the Warsaw Uprising or the November Uprising?
What is the name of the science that deals with reconstructing and predicting climate based on the size of annual tree growth (rings)?
In which industry are the Effie awards given?
What is the name of Little Bear's brightest star?
Who transported the souls of the dead across the Styx?
Is the dolphin a mammal?
How many arms does the Cross of the Order of Polonia Restituta have?
How many piano concertos did Frederic Chopin create?
In what century was the Royal Albert Hall building constructed?
What is the name of the spoken text of an opera, operetta, oratorio, cantata?
In what year was the first Nobel Prize for literature awarded?
How many sixteenths does an entire note consist of?
What do we call annihilation, a mass extermination of people, a crime against humanity aimed at exterminating specific groups of people because of their race, nationality, religion?
What was the name of the German theologian who promulgated 95 theses criticizing the selling of indulgences for the construction of St. Peter's Basilica?
Who lived at 221b Baker Street in London?
On which continent is the historical land called Flanders located?
What trap is featured in the title of the blockbuster with Bruce Willis?
In which EU country did the "Five Star Movement" party enter parliament?
What are the names of the Jewish books of religious laws and regulations?
In which city is the Hagia Sophia located?
What was the name of the Polish military formations that Jan Henryk Dabrowski set out to create on January 9, 1797?
Who uttered the words "Hail Caesar, you are greeted by those going to your death"?
How many full years did World War I last?
The banks of which river are connected by the Vasco da Gama Bridge?
What is 1/1000th of the total called?
What is the name of the author of the series of adventures of Tom Wilmowski, who travels with his friend in different parts of the world?
What kind of account does a Catholic make before confession?
The great love of which Polish poet was Maryla Wereszczakówna?
Which gas does the air contain more of: oxygen or nitrogen?
What is the name of the German steel, mining and engineering conglomerate, founded in 1811, which later became one of the world's largest weapons manufacturers, also supplying the Nazi army until 1945?
What is one of a pair of words with opposite meanings called?
Who was the chancellor of West Germany before Helmut Kohl?
What else do we call the Pacific Ocean?
What is the name of the province of Ethiopia that formed an independent state in 1993?
What else is thyme called?
What was the motto of the Musketeers?
Which country besides South Korea hosted the 2002 World Cup?
What is the name of the branch of linguistics that includes the study of the sound side of language?
Please complete the adage: "He who digs holes under whom...".
Where did the Polish army defeat the Turks after the Vienna Victory?
On the territory of which country rises the highest peak in the Hindu Kush, which is called Tirich Mir?
Please provide the name of the first Polish Olympic boxing champion.
Does the lora, a freight car, have a roof?
What is the name of the indigenous people of New Guinea and nearby islands?
What is the name of the UN statute adopted in 1945 in San Francisco, formulating the goals, objectives, principles of operation and activities of the UN?
From what language does the word "abracadabra" come?
What is the chemical symbol for carbon?
What do the words "Dies irae" mean?
What was the title of Justyna Steczkowska's debut album?
Who played the main male roles in the films "Dr. Kildare" and "Shogun"?
How many years is the term of the Sejm in Poland?
What is the name of one of the world's most famous opera houses located in Milan?
What was the name of the mythical king of Elida, at whose house one of the jobs Heracles had to perform?
What unit in shipping is a cable?
Which city is the capital of Estonia?
In which country is the Reuters Agency headquartered?
What is characterized by a lack of elasticity, has no definite shape and always assumes the shape of the vessel it is in?
What is the Latin name for the transition of property from ecclesiastical to secular authority?
Who did the Poles fight in 1241 at Legnica?
What do we call agriculture aimed at improving the quality and healthiness of agricultural products and halting environmental degradation?
Which famous American writer wrote "The Grapes of Wrath"?
What was the family name of Queen Elizabeth's spouse, Prince Philip?
What kind of degree is obtained after conducting a postdoctoral dissertation?
From which dynasty was King Henry VIII of England descended?
Who, besides Jan Matejko, painted the post of Poland's rulers?
What is the name of the grouping that exercised bloody rule in Cambodia in the second half of the 1970s?
In which sport is the prize for victory the Davis Cup?
What fruits are used to produce kirsh vodka?
The Republic of Indonesia crosses the equator, the Tropic of Cancer or the Tropic of Capricorn?
Did Al Capone, the American gangster, die in prison?
What do we call rock material transported and deposited by a glacier?
By what name did Princess Sophie Augusta Friedrich von Anhalt-Zerbst go down in history?
What is the name of the sled used in mountain rescue to transport the injured?
Is the subtraction alternating?
Who lived earlier: Casimir the Restorer or Casimir the Great?
What did Prometheus steal from the gods and give to humans?
Since the death of Jerzy Giedroyc, who has been performing the duties of editor of the Parisian Culture?
On which Polish Radio program is the "Radio House of Culture" broadcast?
Who was Olivia Newton-John's partner in the musical "Grease"?
Are starfish predatory animals?
What is the Gollob brothers' family sport?
At which Allied conference was it decided to divide Germany into four occupation zones?
A resident of Szczawnica is...?
What is the name of the rule exercised by a small privileged group derived from the aristocracy?
To which dynasty did Augustus II the Strong and Augustus III reign in Poland?
In what field was Isaac Singer awarded the Nobel Prize?
Charlie Chaplin was under or over 80 at the time he received his lifetime achievement Oscar?
What is the name of a composition made of pieces of colored glass fused with lead?
Who defeated the Roman leader Pompey the Great at Pharsalos in 48 BC?
How much was the fee for transporting souls across the River Styx?
What is the name of a military operation that involves blowing up armed troops in enemy territory?
What is the square root of the number 25?
Is Cambridge University located in the American city of the same name?
Whose attribute is the fisherman's ring?
Was penicillin discovered before or after World War I?
Is the Bastille still preserved today?
What musical instrument does Vanessa Mae play at concerts?
Did aurochs live in Poland?
The co-creator of which direction in French painting was Henri Matisse?
In what year was the Auschwitz Birkenau camp liberated?
What, in sports, is the positioning of the hands to protect against an opponent's blow called?
Who was the Republican party's candidate in the 1996 U.S. presidential election?
What fluid property is a viscometer used to measure?
What is the official name of the Germany reunified in 1990?
Which rank in the navy is the highest?
Which U.S. state is located on eight major islands and 120 smaller ones?
What is the name of the ribbon sewn on a uniform or jacket to replace a decoration?
Pluto lost its status as a planet in 2006. Which planet is currently the smallest in the Solar System?
What is the name of the thin, long pasta that is the national dish in Italy?
The name of which Hungarian dance appears in the title of Imre Kalman's famous operetta?
Which vegetable has more calories: cauliflower or potato?
Which programming language is named after a famous French scientist?
In which constellation is Alioth the brightest star?
What is the name of a submarine-launched missile equipped with its own propulsion system?
What is the name of a rigid hat, a cylinder that can be folded flat and stretched by a special spring?
Whose headquarters is the Capitol in Washington, D.C.?
Who was St. Luke, the author of the Gospels and the Acts of the Apostles, by profession?
What area is the Wimbledon tennis tournament played on?
How do people moving per pedes get around?
In which partition did Lviv find itself after the Third Partition of Poland?
Is the pope the bishop of Rome?
What is the name of the girl, a protégé and friend of Leon the Professional from Luc Besson's film?
What is the plural of the word protocol?
Was Giovanni Lorenzo Bernini an outstanding artist of the Renaissance or Baroque era?
Is the dulcimer a string instrument or a percussion instrument?
Does life imprisonment apply in Poland?
Who is the author of the 17th century painting "Three Graces"?
Name the Arabic honorific title literally meaning "man of old age"?
In what year was the Warsaw Stock Exchange established?
What is the Latin name for forcibly removing someone from occupied premises?
Who was Bronislaw Pilsudski to Józef Piłsudski?
What kind of troops carried out the famous attack on the Spanish artillery in the Samosierra Gorge?
With a cell phone, can the photo be sent via SMS or MMS?
To oppress someone, to outwit someone - is to make him what color?
How many players are involved in a game of checkers?
In which cemetery do Maria Konopnicka and Artur Grottger rest?
What is the basic ingredient in mustard?
Which country is home to the longest navigable canal in the world?
Please provide the Polish name of the element natrium.
Which show at the National Theater was taken off the poster in early 1968?
How many popes have borne both the names John and Paul?
Did the two battles on the Marne take place during World War I or World War II?
What is the name of the former unit of speed equal to the speed of light in a vacuum?
To which country does the Kola Peninsula belong?
Who was the author of the illustrations to The Little Prince?
Is Tony Stark a hero transforming into Iron Man or Batman?
From which dynasty did Leszek the White and Leszek the Black originate?
What was the coat of arms of Maciek and Zbyszek of Bogdaniec?
Who composed the symphonic piece "Boléro"?
From which ship were the shots fired that gave the signal to storm the Provisional Government headquarters in Petrograd on November 7, 1917?
Which god was the ruler on Olympus?
How often does the magazine "Politics" appear?
What is the name of China's longest river?
Garri Kasparov won the world championship in boxing, wrestling or chess?
What is the name of the person who replaces the actor in dangerous scenes?
Is xenophilia a dislike or affection toward strangers?
What color is the pebble that Maryla Rodowicz sings about in the song "Remedium"?
Who constructed the first pendulum clock in 1657?
How many sides does the trapezoid have?
In a Polish court, what is the name of a member of the bench, a representative of the public, who cannot preside over the case?
What flap of skin protects the eyeball?
What was the name of Pawlak from "His Own"?
Which acid is used in the art of etching?
On which large river is Rome located?
From which dynasty is Prince Albert II of Monaco descended?
How often does a solar eclipse occur on Mercury?
What are the bells at the harness called?
Who was the Minister of Industry in Tadeusz Mazowiecki's government that started the reform process?
Which town did Zbigniew Wodecki refer to in the song as the Polish Barbados?
Which French king was nicknamed the "Sun King"?
In which camp did Rotmistrz Pilecki co-organize the underground?
Is China a member of the United Nations?
What do we call integers that have no other divisors besides self and unity?
What is the name of cakes made from whipped egg white foam with sugar?
How many satellites does Saturn have?
Which Polish team is called the White Star?
In what century did the first human balloon flight take place?
In what year did Stefan Żeromski die?
We determine the degree of hardness of minerals on the Mohs scale. Which degree does a diamond have?
What is the term for the Swedish invasion that began in 1655?
What was the name of the yacht on which Krystyna Chojnowska-Liskiewicz became the first woman in the world to circumnavigate the Earth alone?
Does the anion have a preponderance of electrons or protons?
